For example , among those who have heard of CNN but did not get news there , expressions of trust and distrust are roughly equal – 37 % trust and 33 % distrust . ( Fully 80 % of those who heard of it and consumed it say they trust it . ) PBS , however ( trusted by 84 % of those who got news there in the past week ) , was roughly twice as trusted as distrusted outside its core audience ( 34 % v. 16 % ) .
A broad majority of Tunisians ( 81 % ) express dissatisfaction with the way things are going in their country . Fewer than two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they are satisfied with the country 's direction . Just 13 % of 18 - 29 year olds are satisfied , while slightly more of those 50 and over ( 24 % ) express satisfaction with national conditions .
The average audience for the evening newscasts for ABC , CBS and NBC remained relatively stable in 2018 , with 5.3 million viewers tuning in on average , compared with 5.2 million in 2017 , according to Comscore TV Essentials® data . ( Average audience is defined as the average number of TVs tuned to a program throughout a time period . )
The Taliban , which has a base of operations on the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan , is seen unfavorably by 59 % of the population in Pakistan . Only 8 % have a favorable view of this extremist organization , with a third of Pakistanis not offering an opinion . Views of the Taliban have not changed substantially in recent years .
It 's been nearly a year since former Egyptian president and Muslim Brotherhood leader , Mohamed Morsi , was removed from power by the country 's military , following huge demonstrations in Cairo and throughout the nation . On May 26 - 27 , presidential elections will be held in Egypt , whose fairness has already been questioned and which will almost certainly result in victory for Abdel Fattah El-Sisi , the former general who led the military takeover . As a new Pew Research Center survey highlights , most Egyptians still favor Morsi 's ouster , but the public mood is grim , and Sisi 's support is limited .
In Russia proper , the public also sees the matter as closed . More than eight-in-ten Russians ( 84 % ) think the March 16th referendum was fair and even more ( 89 % ) say Kyiv ought to validate the results , according to a new Pew Research survey in Russia , conducted among 1,000 randomly selected adults between April 4 - 20 . The same survey finds that majorities of Russians ( 61 % ) agree that there are parts of neighboring countries that belong to Russia , and that the collapse of the Soviet Union was a great tragedy ( 55 % ) .
Amid the breakdown of peace talks between Israeli and Palestinian negotiators , the public is divided over whether a way can be found for a peaceful two-state solution in the Middle East . Overall , 46 % say an independent Palestinian state can coexist peacefully with Israel , 44 % do not think this can happen . A year ago , 50 % thought it was possible for an independent Palestinian state to exist peacefully alongside Israel , 41 % did not .
Average audience for the network TV Sunday morning political talk shows on ABC , CBS , Fox and NBC – This Week , Face the Nation , Fox News Sunday and Meet the Press , respectively – declined 8 % in 2018 , to about 2.3 million average viewers .
The average audience for the four newsmagazine shows aired by the networks – ABC 's 20/20 , CBS 's 60 Minutes and 48 Hours , and NBC 's Dateline – declined in 2018 , down 8 % from 2017 .
Overall , 67 % approve of Hillary Clinton 's job performance as secretary of state , while just 25 % disapprove . Fully 91 % of Democrats approve of the way she handled her job as secretary , as do a majority ( 64 % ) of independents . About half of Republicans ( 53 % ) disapprove of her job performance as secretary of state while 39 % approve .
The Fox News audience skews more ideological than that of its two main competitors . Fully 60 % of Fox News viewers describe themselves as conservative , compared with 23 % who say they are moderate and 10 % who are liberal , according to a 2012 survey by the Pew Research Center . By contrast , the ideological makeup of CNN viewers ( 32 % conservative , 30 % moderate , 30 % liberal ) and MSNBC viewers ( 32 % conservative , 23 % moderate , 36 % liberal ) is far more mixed .
Overall , the percentage of the public that is looking forward to this fall 's midterm election is about the same today ( 51 % ) as it was in January 2010 ( 50 % ) . Currently , 63 % of Republicans and 53 % of Democrats say they are anticipating the midterm elections ; a similar gap was evident four years ago ( 60 % of Republicans vs. 48 % of Democrats ) .
In terms of broader priorities for the nation 's energy supply , a majority of Americans ( 58 % ) say it is more important to develop alternative energy sources , such as wind , solar and hydrogen technology , while just 34 % say expanding exploration and production of oil , coal and natural gas is the more important priority . These views are little changed from February , when 54 % said more important to develop alternatives and 34 % said more important to expand production from traditional sources .
A majority ( 56 % ) of moderate non-Tea Party Republicans say the party 's position on gay marriage is too conservative . That compares with just 22 % of Tea Party Republicans and 21 % of GOP conservatives who do not agree with the Tea Party . Among the latter groups , more say the party 's stance on gay marriage is not conservative enough ( 35 % of Tea Party , 34 % of non-Tea conservatives ) than say it is too conservative .
The latest evidence for that comes from Minneapolis-based investment bank Piper Jaffray . Earlier this spring , the firm , which regularly surveys teens ' spending patterns , brand preferences , media and entertainment habits and other information of interest to investors , asked 4,800 teens nationwide whether they shopped online ; not surprisingly , more than three-quarters said they did . But when Piper asked teens whether they preferred shopping online or in stores , 78 % of girls and 75 % of boys said they 'd rather go to actual stores .
More recently , there has been a major shift in attitudes on whether it is immoral to smoke marijuana . Currently , 32 % say that smoking marijuana is morally wrong , an 18-point decline since 2006 ( 50 % ) . Over this period , the percentage saying that smoking marijuana is not a moral issue has risen 15 points ( from 35 % then to 50 % today ) .
They were also much more likely to say the country needs to continue to make changes to ensure blacks have equal rights with whites . Fully eight-in-ten blacks ( 81 % ) said so , compared with just over a third ( 36 % ) of whites .
The minority groups that carried President Obama to victory yesterday by giving him 80 % of their votes are on track to become a majority of the nation 's population by 2050 , according to projections by the Pew Research Center . They currently make up 37 % of the population , and they cast a record 28 % of the votes in the 2012 presidential election , according to the election exit polls.By 2050 , the Hispanic share of the U.S. population could be as high as 29 % , up from 17 % now . The black proportion of the population is projected to be unchanged at 13 % , while the Asian share is projected to increase to 9 % from its current 5 % .
Education , jobs and the economy , and health care are the top issues for Hispanic registered voters . Some 55 % of registered voters say the issue of education is extremely important to them , followed by 54 % who cite jobs and the economy , and 50 % who cite health care . These three top issues are the same as those cited by Hispanic registered voters in December 2011 ( Lopez , Gonzalez-Barrera and Motel , 2011 ) .
In addition to the Cain allegations , most Americans say they heard at least a little last week about large banks abandoning plans to charge monthly fees for using debit cards to shop ( 46 % a lot , 33 % a little ) . Far fewer had heard about the arrest of four older men in Georgia on charges that they were planning a terror attack involving the poison ricin . Just 8 % had heard a lot about this story , 30 % had heard a little .
As people have gained more access to computers and cell phones , internet and email usage have also increased . A median of 45 % across the 18 countries for which 2007 trends are available now say they use the internet at least occasionally ; three years ago , when the Pew Global Attitudes Project first asked this question , a median of 35 % said that was the case . The median percentage that sends or receives email at least occasionally has also risen , although not as steeply , from 29 % in 2007 to 34 % in 2010 .
Agreement on proposed solutions , though , did not share the ubiquity of concern about the size of the deficit . A poll in the summer of 1983 found overwhelming disapproval for raising taxes ( 78 % disapprove , 15 % approve ) and making cuts to entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare ( 82 % disapprove , 11 % approve ) in order to address the deficit . By lesser margins , Americans also rejected further cuts to social programs ( 50 % disapprove , 42 % approve ) as a solution .
Just over two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they followed events in Iraq very closely , while 7 % say they followed this news more closely than any other major story . News about Iraq and the most recent elections there accounted for 3 % of the newshole .
Using a separate measure , 38 % of Americans say they followed news about the economy very closely , while 33 % say they followed the debate over health care reform very closely and 30 % say they tracked the Winter Olympics very closely . Smaller percentages say they very closely followed the plane crash at the IRS offices in Austin ( 26 % ) , the U.S. military effort in Afghanistan ( 24 % ) and the release of some of the U.S. missionaries accused of kidnapping Haitian children ( 16 % ) .
The close ties between people in the U.S. and Mexico are reflected in the survey 's findings – 39 % of Mexicans have friends or relatives in the U.S. Nearly one-in-five ( 18 % ) Mexicans say they receive money from relatives living in another country , although this represents a slight decline from 2007 , when 23 % said they received money from outside .
Most Americans say climate change is having at least some impact on their local community , but this sentiment is more common among Democrats than Republicans . About six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 62 % ) say climate change is affecting their local community at least some , including 22 % who say it 's impacting their community a great deal . Democrats ( 82 % ) are much more likely than Republicans ( 38 % ) to say climate change is affecting the community they live in .
Americans have grown slightly more positive about the WHO 's handling of the pandemic . Only 53 % of Americans said this summer that the organization had handled the outbreak well , but that represented an increase since the spring , when only 46 % said this .
Public interest in the Iraq war remained consistent last week . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed news from Iraq very closely , while 13 % say it was their top news story of the week . Those numbers are largely unchanged from the previous week .
On one hand , Americans continued to support the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , at least in principle , but had concerns about its scope and implementation . A Gallup poll in October 1964 reported that the public approved of the new law by nearly two-to-one ( 58 % to 31 % ) . And in April 1965 , Gallup found a whopping 76 % in favor of a then-proposed equal rights voting law .
Some owners try to be polite when addressing their smart speakers . More than half ( 54 % ) of smart speaker owners report that they ever say `` please '' when speaking to their device , including about one-in-five ( 19 % ) who say they do this frequently . And while the shares of Americans who say this tend to be similar across many groups , there are some notable differences by gender .
Partisans also generally agree about their inability to agree on `` basic facts . '' Overall , 73 % of the public – including 77 % of Republicans and 72 % of Democrats – say that voters in both parties `` not only disagree over plans and policies , but also can not agree on the basic facts . ''
As was the case in January , far more Americans say Trump 's economic policies have made U.S. economic conditions better ( 44 % ) than worse ( 23 % ) , while 30 % say they have not had much of an effect . These attitudes – like views of the economy itself – are divided by partisanship . Republicans overwhelmingly say that Trump 's policies have made the economy better ( 79 % say this ) .
When it comes to the 18 % of teachers who took a second job during the 2015 - 16 school year , there were no major differences by age or teaching experience level . But there were differences by gender : During the school year , roughly a quarter ( 26 % ) of male teachers had a second job , compared with 15 % of female teachers . ( The pattern was similar for the previous summer , when 24 % of male teachers had a second job , versus 13 % of female teachers .
One other question , not included as part of the scale , asked survey respondents which of two statements best describes the scientific method : That it produces findings meant to be continually tested and updated over time , or that it identifies unchanging core principles and truths . Two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say the scientific method is designed to be iterative , producing findings that are continually tested and updated , while 15 % say the method produces unchanging core principles and truths , and 17 % say they are not sure .
In France , home to Europe 's largest Jewish population , reports of anti-Semitic incidents rose dramatically in 2018 . There were 541 cases reported last year – not as high as in some previous years , but a 74 % increase from 2017 , according to the country 's Ministère de l'Intérieur . And already in 2019 , there have been several new high-profile anti-Semitic incidents , including swastikas being spray-painted on graves in a Jewish cemetery .
When asked about the future of U.S.-European relations , nearly two-thirds of Americans say they would like relations to remain as close as they have been ( 65 % ) , while 30 % think the U.S. should take a more independent approach to foreign policy . However , when Germans were asked specifically about U.S.-German relations , roughly seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) said they would like their country to pursue a more independent approach .
When asked about the financial situation of average people in their country , roughly equal pluralities of Germans and Americans say it is worse than it was 20 years ago ( 46 % and 45 % , respectively ) . And only about a third in each country believe the financial situation of ordinary people is better .
Students from China , India and South Korea accounted for more than half ( 54 % ) of all newly enrolled foreign students pursuing degrees at U.S. colleges and universities in 2016 .
Few Nigerians are satisfied with the state of their democracy . Only 39 % of Nigerians are satisfied with the way democracy is working in their country , while 60 % say they are not satisfied . This negative sentiment is similar to what was found in 2017 but is slightly improved from 2013 , when Goodluck Jonathan was president and 72 % were dissatisfied with the way democracy was working .
Scientists overwhelmingly agree that humans evolved over time , and most Americans are aware that this is the case . Among scientists connected to the American Association for the Advancement of Science , 98 % say they believe humans evolved over time . Roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Americans perceive that most biological scientists hold this view , according to the new study .
A 2017 Pew Research Center survey found that about half of Americans ( 53 % ) say most people in our society these days look up to men who are manly or masculine , with women more likely than men ( 62 % vs. 43 % ) and Democrats more likely than Republicans ( 58 % vs. 47 % ) to hold this view . About two-thirds of men who say society looks up to masculine men ( 68 % ) say this is a good thing ; a narrower majority of women ( 56 % ) say the same . Views differ more widely along party lines : Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents who say society values masculinity , 78 % say this is a good thing , compared with 49 % of their Democratic and Democratic-leaning counterparts .
Yet among partisans who have heard a lot about the issue , the partisan gap over the decision to withdraw is even wider than in the public overall . Roughly two-thirds of Republicans who have heard a lot about the withdrawal ( 66 % ) say this would be the right decision , compared with 27 % who say it would not be . Among Democrats who have heard a lot about the plan to withdraw , nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) view it as the wrong decision , while just 16 % say it would be the right decision .
Most Democrats want party leaders to `` stand up '' to Trump . As was the case a year ago , a majority of Democrats ( 70 % ) want their party 's leaders to `` stand up '' to Trump this year , even if it means less gets done in Washington ; just 26 % want them to try as best they can to work with Trump , even if it means disappointing some groups of Democratic supporters . A year ago , 63 % of Democrats wanted their party 's leaders to stand up to the president .
When it comes to the likelihood of cyberattacks , most say that an attack where sensitive national security information will be accessed is either very or somewhat likely ( or volunteer that this has already happened ) . A median of 74 % across the 26 countries hold this view .
The rise in unfavorable views comes amid widespread criticism over how China has handled the coronavirus pandemic . Across the 14 nations surveyed , a median of 61 % say China has done a bad job dealing with the outbreak . This is many more than say the same of the way the COVID-19 pandemic was handled by their own country or by international organizations like the World Health Organization or the European Union .
Almost six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) consider it an appropriate use of technology to genetically engineer animals to grow organs or tissues that could be used for humans needing a transplant , while 41 % say this would be going too far , according to a new survey by Pew Research Center .
4 Many Americans say NATO does too little to solve global problems . In an October 2017 Pew Research Center survey , almost half of Americans ( 48 % ) said NATO does not do enough to help solve world problems . About a third ( 31 % ) said NATO does the right amount , while just 5 % said the alliance does too much to solve the world 's problems .
More than half of teens have made at least one new friend online . Fully 57 % of teenagers have met a new friend over the internet , with nearly three-in-ten teens ( 29 % ) saying they have made more than five friends this way . But most of these relationships remain online , with a majority ( 77 % ) of all teenagers saying they have never met an online friend in person .
Only 23 % of U.S. adults who self-identify as Hispanic or Latino have heard of the term Latinx , and just 3 % say they use it to describe themselves , according to a bilingual survey of U.S. Hispanic adults the Center conducted in December 2019 . Awareness and use vary across subgroups , with young Hispanics ages 18 to 29 among the most likely to have heard of the term – 42 % say they have heard of it , compared with 7 % of those ages 65 or older . Use is among the highest for Hispanic women ages 18 to 29 – 14 % say they use it , compared with 1 % of Hispanic men in the same age group who say they use it .
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's approach to Pakistan is n't popular , but his handling of Kashmir is . Modi has shown a willingness to use both diplomacy and military force to engage Pakistan . But despite Modi 's overall popularity in India ( 88 % see him favorably ) , only 21 % of Indians approve of the way he is handling relations with Pakistan .
A large majority of Filipinos ( 86 % ) hold a favorable opinion of Duterte , with 41 % holding a very favorable opinion of the president . Only 12 % of Filipinos have an unfavorable view of Duterte .
While Filipinos generally favor the pursuit of a less-tense relationship with China , the threat of conflict still exists , given the ongoing territorial disputes . In the event that a serious military conflict did occur between the Philippines and China , 68 % believe the U.S. would use military force to defend their country . Even among those who hold the U.S. in an unfavorable light , a majority ( 58 % ) believe that the U.S. would use military force to defend the Philippines .
There are more modest partisan divisions on other survey questions about the impact of higher education . In a study last year of attitudes about the state of American jobs , majorities in both parties – regardless of their level of educational attainment – said a four-year degree prepares someone very or somewhat well for a well-paying job in today 's economy . However , Democrats and Democratic leaners were more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say this ( 73 % vs. 62 % ) .
1 About a third of Americans ( 35 % ) say they read scripture at least once a week , while 45 % seldom or never read scripture , according to 2014 data from our Religious Landscape Study . Frequency of reading scripture differs widely among religious groups . Majorities of Jehovah 's Witnesses ( 88 % ) , Mormons ( 77 % ) , evangelical Protestants ( 63 % ) and members of historically black Protestant churches ( 61 % ) say they read scripture at least once a week .
The public holds very different views of three world leaders : Vladimir Putin , Benjamin Netanyahu and Angela Merkel . By 69 % to 19 % more hold an unfavorable than favorable view of Russian President Vladimir Putin ; just 13 % do not offer a rating of him . Views of Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are mixed : 34 % view him favorably , while about as many ( 32 % ) view him unfavorably and 33 % are unable to offer a rating .
Most Hispanic adults see being Hispanic as part of their racial background . While being Hispanic is described on census survey forms as an ethnic origin and not a race , two-thirds of Hispanic adults said in the 2015 survey that being Hispanic was part of their racial background , including 11 % who described it only as their race and 56 % who said it was part of both their racial and ethnic background ; 19 % said being Hispanic was part of their ethnic background only .
When asked if being a member of the post-World War II security alliance was good or bad for the U.S. , 77 % said it was a good thing . Only 16 % said membership was a bad thing . Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has raised questions about the relevancy of NATO .
In 2015 , average hourly wages for black and Hispanic men were $ 15 and $ 14 , respectively , compared with $ 21 for white men . Only the hourly earnings of Asian men ( $ 24 ) outpaced those of white men . Among women across all races and ethnicities , hourly earnings lag behind those of white men and men in their own racial or ethnic group .
Digital ad spending went up 20 % last year , and mobile advertising now tops desktop , but journalism organizations have not been the primary beneficiaries . There was explosive growth in mobile advertising , which increased by 65 % , reaching $ 32 billion – higher than desktop advertising for the first year ever . Almost two-thirds of this $ 60 billion in digital advertising spending ( 65 % ) went to just five technology companies : Google , Facebook , Yahoo , Microsoft and Twitter .
Pakistanis are also more willing to support the army in its fight against terrorist groups in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas than they were in the past . In 2015 , 58 % supported using the army to fight these groups , with only 16 % opposed . Comparable levels of commitment to rooting our terrorists in these areas have not been seen since 2009 , when the question was first asked .
Economic opportunity is one of the primary drivers for moving to the U.S. mainland , according to Census Bureau data . Among island-born Puerto Ricans who moved to the mainland , 40 % said they left mainly for job-related reasons , while 39 % cited family-related reasons .
Afro-Latinos are one of these Latino identity groups . They are characterized by their diverse views of racial identity , reflecting the complex and varied nature of race and identity among Latinos . A Pew Research Center survey of Latino adults shows that one-quarter of all U.S. Latinos self-identify as Afro-Latino , Afro-Caribbean or of African descent with roots in Latin America .
A large majority of Republicans ( 71 % ) said that government aid to the poor does more harm than good , but there are divisions within the party based on income , according to the February survey . Eight-in-ten Republicans with annual incomes of $ 75,000 or more say government aid to the poor does more harm than good , as do 71 % of those with incomes of $ 30,000- $ 74,999 . But lower-income Republicans are less likely to agree .
Yet there is broad public skepticism that a thaw in U.S.-Cuba relations will lead to greater democracy in Cuba . Only about a third ( 32 % ) say they think Cuba will become more democratic over the next several years , while 60 % say it will be about the same as it is now .
An estimated 421,000 Hispanics of Venezuelan origin resided in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Venezuelans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Venezuelan origin ; this includes immigrants from Venezuela and those who trace their family ancestry to Venezuela . Venezuelans are the 13th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for less than 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 .
The Supreme Court 's pair of decisions on same-sex marriage was the public 's top news story of the week . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) very closely followed the coverage of these rulings . Fewer ( 19 % ) followed the court 's decision on the 1965 Voting Rights Act .
Such analyses , though , rely on projections of how many same-sex couples will want to marry . In the Pew Research Center 's recent survey of LGBT Americans , similar percentages of unmarried gay men and lesbians ( 56 % and 58 % , respectively ) said they would like to get married someday ; 4 % of gay men and 6 % of lesbians said they were currently legally married ( the report did not attempt to estimate the total LGBT population ) .
A few months later , a Harris poll got a sense of how homosexuals were viewed by the public by asking whether homosexuals ( and many other groups ) were `` more helpful '' or `` more harmful '' to American life . By a margin of 63 % to 1 % , Americans said homosexuals were more harmful than helpful ; 25 % said homosexuals neither helped nor harmed and 10 % were not sure . This balance of opinion at the time put homosexuals in similar esteem as prostitutes and atheists – although not as negatively viewed as Americans who were members of the Communist Party .
Americans – regardless of whether they are in a relationship – were asked in the survey about their views about some issues related to technology and relationships . For example , they weighed in on the acceptability of looking through a significant other 's phone without that person 's knowledge . Seven-in-ten U.S. adults say it is rarely ( 28 % ) or never ( 42 % ) acceptable to look through a significant other 's cellphone without their knowledge .
While it is fairly common for social media users to come across other people posting things about their love lives , only a minority of Americans who use these platforms ( 28 % ) say they have ever shared or discussed things about their relationship or dating life . About four-in-ten adults who are living with their partner ( 39 % ) and nearly half of those in a committed relationship ( 48 % ) but not living together say they have ever posted about their relationship on social media . Conversely , married and single adults are the least likely to post about their love lives ( 24 % and 26 % , respectively ) .
Over the past month , conservative Republicans have become more likely to say their greater concern is that restrictions will not be lifted quickly enough . The 61 % of conservative Republicans who now say this is up from 53 % in another survey conducted April 7 - 12 . Among moderate and liberal Republicans , by comparison , the 61 % who now say they are more concerned that restrictions will be lifted too quickly is nearly identical to the 60 % who said this in the earlier survey .
Overall , there has been little change since January in opinions about two other gun policy proposals : creating a federal database to track all gun sales and a ban on assault style weapons . Currently 66 % support a federal gun database and 54 % support an assault weapons ban .
Over the past two decades , the share of students graduating from public high schools who are white and non-Hispanic has declined dramatically – from 73 % in 1995 to 57 % in 2012 , according to the most recent data available . In that time period the shares that are Hispanic and Asian have grown . WICHE projects that this trend will continue , with the public high school graduating class of 2025 being barely majority white ( 51 % ) .
More broadly , many of Pakistan 's Muslims think that religious leaders should have a role in politics . About half say that religious leaders should have either `` some influence '' ( 27 % ) or a `` large influence '' ( 27 % ) in political matters , while about a quarter say religious leaders should have `` not too much influence '' ( 12 % ) or `` no influence at all '' ( 14 % ) .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 72 % ) believe that all , almost all or most of what they do online or while using a cellphone is being tracked by advertisers , technology firms or other companies , according to the June 2019 survey . Close to half of Americans ( 47 % ) said the same about their online activities being tracked by the government .
The key Senate vote that halted gun control legislation last week is drawing a mixed reaction from the American public : 47 % express negative feelings about the vote while 39 % have a positive reaction to the Senate 's rejection of gun control legislation that included background checks on gun purchases . Overall , 15 % say they are angry this legislation was voted down and 32 % say they are disappointed . On the other side , 20 % say are very happy the legislation was blocked , while 19 % say they are relieved .
Republicans ( 21 % ) are somewhat more likely than Democrats ( 15 % ) to say that the pandemic has financially helped news organizations a little or a lot . The same pattern appears in the shares who say it has not had much economic impact ( 21 % of Republicans say no impact vs. 15 % of Democrats ) .
Western Europeans with populist views are less likely than non-populists to say the news media are very important to the functioning of their country 's society . This pattern appeared in seven of eight Western European countries surveyed by Pew Research Center in 2017 ( the exception was Spain ) . The differences in views between populists and non-populists were even more pronounced than the differences between those who place themselves on the ideological left and right .
The rise in support for same-sex marriage has been confirmed by every major national survey organization tracking the issue . But the balance of opinion differs based on the wording of the question . The Pew Research Center question asks : `` Do you strongly favor , favor , oppose , or strongly oppose allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally ? '' The March 13 - 17 survey finds 49 % in favor and 44 % opposed .
One big reason for the good performance of our visitors is that most of them are well educated , and college-educated people tend to do very well on the quiz . Nearly three-quarters of our website quiz takers ( 74 % ) are college graduates , while another 20 % have completed at least some college . Among the 1,041 adults in the general public sample , only 29 % had completed college and 29 % had some college experience .
For 18 of 19 programs tested , majorities want either to increase spending or maintain it at current levels . The only exception is assistance for needy people around the world . Nonetheless , as many say that funding for aid to the needy overseas should either be increased ( 21 % ) , or kept the same ( 28 % ) , as decreased ( 48 % ) .
Americans with lower incomes are especially likely to express concern about broadband and cellphone bills . Roughly half of lower-income broadband users ( 52 % ) say they worry a lot or some about being able to pay for their high-speed internet connection over the coming months , compared with 26 % of those with incomes in the middle and just 9 % of those in the high-income tier . Among smartphone owners , 54 % of those who have lower incomes say they worry at least some about paying their cellphone bills , compared with 25 % of those who are middle income and just 9 % of upper-income users .
A substantial majority of Americans ( 76 % ) feel that both spending cuts and tax increases should be a part of the next step in tackling the federal budget deficit . But an equally large proportion believes that the greater share should come from spending cuts , even if tax hikes are also considered .
While there is not clear majority support among either party for this , Democrats and independents who lean toward the Democratic Party are more likely than their Republican and Republican-leaning counterparts to believe that the government should have a role in providing these services . Roughly half of Democrats ( 52 % ) say the federal government has a responsibility to ensure that all Americans have a high-speed internet connection at home during the COVID-19 outbreak , while just 22 % of Republicans hold his view . Democrats are also about twice as likely as Republicans to believe the federal government has responsibility to provide cellphone service for all Americans amid this crisis ( 45 % vs. 21 % ) .
It remains to be seen whether the strengthened faith that some Americans are experiencing will translate into greater service attendance , since most houses of worship are closed due to nationwide social distancing recommendations . Indeed , among U.S. adults who say they typically attend religious services at least once or twice a month , just 3 % say their congregation is still holding in-person services . The vast majority ( 91 % ) say their congregation has closed its religious services to the public , and 5 % say they do not know what their congregation has done .
As online college courses have become increasingly prevalent , the general public and college presidents offer different assessments of their educational value . Just three-in-ten American adults ( 29 % ) say a course taken online provides an equal educational value to one taken in a classroom , according to a March 2011 survey . By contrast , fully half of college presidents ( 51 % ) say online courses provide the same value .
Majorities or pluralities in 22 of the 34 countries surveyed say men generally have more opportunities for high-paying jobs than women , including about two-thirds or more in Sweden , France , Japan , South Korea , Israel , Spain , the UK , Australia and Canada . More than four-in-ten in Greece , Nigeria , Russia , Lebanon and Argentina also think men in their country have more opportunities when it comes to getting high-paying jobs , but similar shares think opportunities are generally the same for men and women .
Majorities also oppose reducing military defense spending ( 56 % ) and funding for scientific research ( 54 % ) . Opinion is divided over reducing funding to help low-income Americans ( 50 % disapprove vs. 43 % approve ) . There also is resistance to making changes in Social Security and Medicare to reduce the debt and deficit : 57 % oppose raising the amount Medicare recipients contribute to their health care , while 56 % disapprove of gradually raising the Social Security retirement age .
But there are wide partisan gaps in these views – with Republicans much more confident than Democrats in the fairness and accessibility of the election . While three-quarters of Republicans and Republican leaners say they are at least somewhat confident the upcoming election will be conducted fairly and accurately , just 46 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say the same ( with a majority saying they are not too or not at all confident in this ) . The partisan gap is even wider when it comes to ballot access .
In September 2008 , far more voters ( 72 % ) said they were satisfied with the presidential choices that year . More voters also were satisfied with the candidates in the 2004 ( 66 % ) , 2000 ( 64 % ) and 1996 ( 61 % ) campaigns .
Even though mobile technology often simplifies the completion of everyday tasks , cell phone owners can also encounter technical glitches and unwanted intrusions on their phones . In an April 2012 survey , the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project assessed the prevalence of four problems that cell owners might face . Some 55 % of cell phone owners say they use their phones to go online— to browse the internet , exchange emails , or download apps .
Japan has a median age of 48 – more than 17 years above the global figure – and about a third of its inhabitants ( 34 % ) are 60 or older . In South Korea , another economically advanced country , the median age is 44 and nearly a quarter of the population ( 23 % ) is 60 or older . Both countries have very low fertility and unusually high life expectancies .
Some 15 % of online adults1 use Twitter as of February 2012 , and 8 % do so on a typical day . Although overall Twitter usage has nearly doubled since the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project first asked a stand-alone Twitter question in November 2010 , the 15 % of online adults who use Twitter as of early 2012 is similar to the 13 % of such adults who did so in May 2011 . At the same time , the proportion of online adults who use Twitter on a typical day has doubled since May 2011 and has quadrupled since late 2010—at that point just 2 % of online adults used Twitter on a typical day .2 The rise of smartphones might account for some of the uptick in usage because smartphone users are particularly likely to be using Twitter .
Overall ratings of Iran remain largely negative across much of the world . Solid majorities in the United States and the European Union have an unfavorable opinion of Iran , including more than eight-in-ten people in Germany ( 91 % ) , France ( 86 % ) , Italy ( 85 % ) and Spain ( 84 % ) .
More than eight-in-ten voters say the economy ( 86 % ) and jobs ( 84 % ) are very important issues in deciding who to vote for this fall . Roughly three-quarters also cite the federal budget deficit ( 74 % ) , health care ( 74 % ) and education ( 72 % ) as top voting priorities . Near the bottom of the list are some of the hot-button social issues .
Partisanship is a stronger factor in people 's beliefs about climate change than is their level of knowledge and understanding about science . In October 2019 , roughly nine-in-ten Democrats with a high level of knowledge about science ( 89 % ) said human activity contributes a great deal to climate change , compared with 41 % of Democrats with low science knowledge , based on an 11-item knowledge index . By contrast , Republicans with a high level of science knowledge were no more likely than those with a low level of knowledge to say human activity plays a strong role in climate change .
The character of the person who occupies the Oval Office matters to the vast majority of Americans . Across party lines and religious groups , roughly nine-in-ten or more say it is either somewhat or very important to have a president who lives a moral , ethical life . But Democrats and those who lean toward the Democratic Party are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say it is `` very '' important ( 71 % vs. 53 % ) , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey .
A majority of Xers also named Clinton as best ( 38 % ) or second-best ( 18 % ) , while 43 % cite Reagan ( 34 % as best , 9 % as second-best ) . Just 23 % of Xers say that Obama is the best or second best president of their lifetimes ; 18 % cite George H. W. Bush and 14 % cite George W. Bush .
Despite the growth of internet news , it is clear that television news outlets , specifically cable news outlets , are central to people 's impressions of the news media . When asked what first comes to mind when they think of news organizations , 63 % volunteer the name of a cable news outlet , with CNN and Fox News by far the most prevalent in people 's minds . Only about a third ( 36 % ) name one of the broadcast networks .
Across 33 nations surveyed in 2019 , a median of 55 % disapproved of the U.S. allowing fewer immigrants into the country ; just 34 % approved . A median of six-in-ten opposed building a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border . And majorities opposed Trump 's efforts to erect trade barriers in addition to physical barriers , with a median of nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) disapproving of increased U.S. tariffs or fees on imported goods .
Strikingly , Muslim Americans are far more satisfied with the way things are going in the country ( 56 % ) than is the general public ( 23 % ) . Four years ago , Muslim Americans and the public rendered fairly similar judgments about the state of the nation ( 38 % of Muslims vs. 32 % of the general public were satisfied ) .
Pluralities also say news organizations are giving the right amount of coverage to the situation in Afghanistan ( 42 % ) and news about the federal budget deficit and national debt ( 44 % ) . Relatively few see either story receiving too much coverage ( 12 % Afghanistan , 11 % federal budget deficit and national debt . )
Overall , 39 % say it has contributed a lot to encouraging interest in science , 35 % say it has contributed some while 22 % think it has contributed not much or nothing . Nearly as many ( 38 % ) say the space program has contributed a lot to scientific advances that all Americans can use , while 34 % think it has done a lot for feelings or pride and patriotism .
Eight-in-ten Americans say they had heard a lot ( 29 % ) or a little ( 52 % ) about an international health panel warning of a possible link between cell phone use and brain cancer . As is usually the case with health-related stories , women had heard more about this story than had men ( 33 % heard a lot versus 25 % ) .
Young adults who have cellphones are also more likely than seniors to have used their cellphone during their most recent social gathering . Fully 98 % of young adults used their cellphone for one reason or another during their most recent get-together with others , compared with 69 % of cell owners 65 and older .
Among the 44 % of Republican and Republican-leaning voters who have heard of Cain , 39 % say there is a good chance they would vote for him , while 35 % say there is some chance . Nearly twice as many Republican voters have heard of Romney ( 85 % ) . Among this group , 32 % say there is a good chance they would vote for him and 43 % say there is some chance .
Overall views of immigrants : Views about immigration policies are often shaped by views about immigrants themselves : Are immigrants generally a problem , taking jobs and services , or do they strengthen the country through hard work and talents ? In our May survey , about half of Americans ( 51 % ) say immigrants strengthen the country , while 41 % view them as a burden . ( These opinions have fluctuated over the years , but in the mid-1990s , majorities said immigrants to the U.S. were a burden . ) However , Republicans ( 63 % ) are far more likely than Democrats ( 32 % ) to say immigrants are a burden .
In the face of unprecedented measures to limit social contact at work , at school and on the main streets of communities across the nation , Americans give themselves good marks , with 86 % saying people in their households are `` reacting about right . '' Most also say their local school system is reacting about right ( 86 % ) , and majorities say the same about their local ( 74 % ) or state ( 72 % ) government .
About two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they very closely followed news about possible candidates for the 2012 presidential election . That 's about the same level of interest as the previous week . Just 6 % say this was the news they followed most closely .
Nearly seven-in-ten registered voters say postponing state primary elections has been a necessary step to address the coronavirus outbreak , according to a Pew Research Center survey . This includes about two-thirds of Republican voters ( 64 % ) and 71 % of Democratic voters .
Almost half—47 % —of adults own an iPod or other mp3 player . However , among the devices examined in this report , mp3 players saw the widest range in ownership rates between generations . While 74 % of Millennials own an mp3 player , only 56 % of members of Gen X do—and adoption rates continue to drop for each of the older generations .
The survey asked teens to rank the types of contact information they would most commonly share with a new friend . About half of teens ( 52 % ) told us that a phone number for calling is one of the first three types of information they would share , but only 9 % say this is the first contact information they would exchange . By comparison , 80 % of teens share their phone number for texting with a new friend , and 54 % say it is the first thing they would give to a new friend .
Large majorities favored the federal government providing free medical care for those unable to pay ( 76 % ) , helping state and local governments cover the costs of medical care for mothers at childbirth ( 74 % ) , spending $ 25 million ( big bucks in those days ) to control venereal diseases ( 68 % ) , and giving loans on `` a long time and easy basis '' to enable tenant farmers to buy the farms they then rented ( 73 % ) .
By their own reckoning , Latinos1 living in the United States do not have a national leader . When asked in an open-ended question to name the person they consider `` the most important Latino leader in the country today , '' nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of Hispanic respondents said they did not know . An additional 10 % said `` no one .
About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed news about a deadly spill of toxic sludge in Hungary very closely ; 3 % say they followed this news most closely . The spill accounted for 2 % of the newshole examined by PEJ .
More than a third of Americans ( 37 % ) say they heard a lot last week about a Rutgers University student who committed suicide after other students streamed live video of him having a sexual encounter in his dorm room over the internet . About a quarter ( 24 % ) say they heard a lot about a controversy concerning the immigration status of California Republican gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman 's housekeeper . About as many ( 23 % ) say they heard a lot about a recall of Fisher Price toys and other products .
Throughout the 20th century , college-educated adults in the United States had been less likely than their less-educated counterparts to be married by age 30 . In 1990 , for example , 75 % of all 30-year-olds who did not have a college degree were married or had been married , compared with just 69 % of those with a college degree .
When friendships end , many teens take steps to cut the digital web that connects them to their former friend . Girls who use social media or cellphones are more likely to prune old content and connections : 53 % of social media- or cellphone-using girls have blocked someone after ending a friendship , compared with 37 % of boys .
On a typical day , 21 % of adults search for product information online . This is an increase from 15 % in 2007 and 9 % in 2004 .
As the eight years of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva 's presidency draw to a close , Brazilians offer largely positive assessments of where their country stands . At a time when global publics are mostly glum about the way things are going in their countries , half of Brazilians say they are satisfied with national conditions , and 62 % say their nation 's economy is in good shape . Of the 21 other publics included in the 2010 Pew Global Attitudes survey , only the Chinese are more upbeat about their country 's overall direction and economic conditions .
Close to half ( 46 % ) say they have been following reports about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely ; 13 % say this was the one story they followed more closely than any other . Coverage of the economy – excluding reports on the financial regulation bill and unemployment benefits – made up 9 % of the newshole .
Americans have mixed views about genetically modified foods ( GMOs ) and their implications for society . About half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) think GMOs are worse for people 's health than foods with no genetically modified ingredients , while 41 % say GM foods have a neutral effect on health . Just 7 % say they are better for health than other foods .
Some survey respondents noted that with the internet 's many social positives come problems . They said that both scenarios presented in the survey are likely to be accurate , and noted that tools such as email and social networks can and are being used in harmful ways . Among the negatives noted by both groups of respondents : time spent online robs time from important face-to-face relationships ; the internet fosters mostly shallow relationships ; the act of leveraging the internet to engage in social connection exposes private information ; the internet allows people to silo themselves , limiting their exposure to new ideas ; and the internet is being used to engender intolerance .
Fourteen percent ( 14 % ) of internet users – or 11 % of all American adults – read a blog dealing with community issues in the twelve months preceding our survey , making community blogs as common as email communications as a way to keep up with neighborhood events . In contrast to face-to-face , telephone and email interactions , neighborhood blogs are relatively popular with young adults : 16 % of online 18 - 29 year olds read a blog dealing with community issues , similar to the rate for those ages 30 - 64 ( 15 % ) and significantly higher than internet users 65 and older ( 9 % of whom have done so ) . Community blogs are particularly popular among residents of urban areas , as 17 % of wired urbanites read a blog dealing with community issues .
Despite concerns about politicians and about the current state of democracy more generally , most Czechs ( 80 % ) approved of the change from a one-party to a multiparty system that took place in the early 1990s . Elsewhere in the region , support for the political changes was also strong ; majorities in all of the former Eastern European publics surveyed except Ukraine embraced the move to competitive politics . But , only the east Germans ( 85 % ) edged Czechs out in support of the move to a competitive election system .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that 27 % of U.S. adults believe Trump 's election reflects God 's will in the sense that the 2016 outcome must be part of God 's overall plan , but that this does n't necessarily mean God approves of Trump 's policies . Far fewer U.S. adults – just 5 % – say God chose Trump because God approves of his policies . About half of Americans say God does n't get involved in U.S. presidential elections ( 49 % ) , while the remainder say they do n't believe in God ( 16 % ) .
One area of convergence is the broad support in both the U.S. and Germany for more cooperation with France and Japan . And similar majorities in the U.S. and Germany want to cooperate more with China . However , a greater share of Americans want to cooperate more with the UK ( 76 % ) than of Germans who say the same ( 51 % ) .
When asked which country is the world 's leading economic power , Americans and Germans give starkly different answers . Half of Americans name the U.S. , with about a third ( 32 % ) choosing China . However , roughly half of Germans name China ( 53 % ) as the leading economic power compared with 24 % who name the U.S .
Men and women who have used online dating sites and apps hold somewhat differing views about how widespread online harassment is on these platforms , according to the most recent survey . For example , while 32 % of female users say people being harassed or bullied is a very common occurrence on online dating platforms , that share falls to 19 % among male users . These gender differences persist across all age ranges .
Conservative Republicans are particularly skeptical that policies can make a difference in addressing climate change . Just one-quarter of conservative Republicans say climate change policies do more good than harm for the environment , while about half ( 47 % ) say such policies make no difference for the environment and 26 % think such policies do more harm than good . By contrast , a large majority of liberal Democrats ( 81 % ) say climate change policies have net benefits for the environment .
Such modest growth has not impressed many global publics , who are fairly gloomy about the current state of their economies . A median of 56 % in advanced economies say economic conditions are bad , while 55 % in emerging markets and 54 % in developing countries share this negative view . Half or more in seven of the 11 advanced economies surveyed say their economy is performing poorly .
Dissatisfaction is apparent even in some of the most established democracies . More than half of those surveyed in the UK ( 69 % ) , the U.S. ( 59 % ) , France ( 58 % ) and Japan ( 53 % ) express dissatisfaction with how democracy is working in their country . In Greece , 74 % are dissatisfied , the highest share of all countries surveyed .
In other news , about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they very closely followed the Iranian government 's crackdown on election protesters last week . That 's comparable to the 28 % that said they were following the post-election protests in Iran very closely one week earlier and indicates continued strong interest in the story . Close to two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed developments in Iran more closely than any other story .
Those who favor right-wing populist parties in Europe express less support for freedom of religion – with two exceptions . In most cases , Europeans who support right-wing populist parties are less supportive of freedom of religion than those who do not hold favorable views of these parties . For example , only 30 % of those who favor the Sweden Democrats party say it is very important that people can practice their religion freely , while 62 % of those with an unfavorable view of Sweden Democrats say the same .
The movement of minority students into suburban school districts since 1993 - 94 has had an impact on national trends in minority student isolation . Nationally , the typical black student in 2006 - 07 attended a school that was 52 % black , down from 54 % black in 1993 - 94 . This modest decline is partly attributable to the fact that a greater share of black students are now educated in suburban schools , where they tend to be less isolated than in city schools .
The survey found interesting differences between the global middle class and others in all of the 13 countries in this study , but these gaps were especially consistent in a few places . Notable differences were particularly common in Chile , Russia , Bulgaria , and South Africa . Looking at the 16 measures analyzed , on 14 of those middle class Chileans differed from lower income Chileans by at least five percentage points .
As might be expected , people 's opinions about whether they would gain or lose influence under the incoming president were very different eight years ago . Core GOP groups , especially Republicans ( 60 % ) and Bush voters ( 59 % ) said they would gain influence ; by contrast , 47 % of Gore voters and nearly as many Democrats ( 44 % ) said they would lose influence .
Majorities in all Western European countries surveyed in 2008 except Spain said they were very or fairly concerned that their country had become too dependent on Russia for its energy resources : Roughly six-in-ten or more among British ( 67 % ) , German ( 62 % ) and French ( 58 % ) publics expressed concern ; the Spanish public was evenly split on this issue ( 46 % concerned , 47 % not concerned ) . More than half in Poland ( 58 % ) and the Czech Republic ( 54 % ) offered critical opinions of Russia . And ratings of Russia were even worse among Western European publics .
Like the U.S. population as a whole , Latinos are feeling the sting of the economic downturn . Almost one-in-ten ( 9 % ) Latino homeowners say they missed a mortgage payment or were unable to make a full payment and 3 % say they received a foreclosure notice in the past year , according to a new national survey of 1,540 Latino adults conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center . Moreover , more than six-in-ten ( 62 % ) Latino homeowners say there have been foreclosures in their neighborhood over the past year , and 36 % say they are worried that their own home may go into foreclosure .
A 20-public median of 48 % say genetically modified , or GM , foods are unsafe to eat , while a much smaller median of 13 % say GM foods are safe . The survey included an option for people with limited familiarity about GM foods to indicate this ; a median of 37 % say they do n't know enough to offer a view about the safety of GM foods . Majorities in places such as Russia ( 70 % ) , Italy ( 62 % ) , India ( 58 % ) and South Korea ( 57 % ) view GM foods as generally unsafe to eat .
However , European publics are notably less enthusiastic . In France , home to large demonstrations when the Olympic torch passed through the country , a clear 55 % -majority calls the decision to hold the games in China a mistake . On balance , the British and Spanish approve of holding the event in China , while Germans , Americans and Poles are more divided on this question .
The proportion of young adults ages 18 - 29 who use the internet has always outpaced overall adoption levels among older groups . But while older adults still report lower levels of internet use today , seniors have the greatest rate of change since 2000 . In 2000 , 70 % of young adults used the internet and that figure has steadily grown to 96 % today .
Obama is rated favorably by 76 % of Latino registered voters , making him much more popular among that voting group than McCain ( 44 % favorable ) and President Bush ( 27 % favorable ) . Hillary Clinton 's ratings among Latino registered voters are 73 % favorable and 24 % unfavorable ; Obama 's are 76 % favorable and 17 % unfavorable .
In fact , Republicans and independents who lean to the GOP are just as likely as Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party to say that , overall , the benefits of the measles , mumps and rubella vaccine outweigh the risks ( 89 % and 88 % respectively ) .
More than eight-in-ten Hispanics ( 86 % ) favor Congress passing a law granting permanent legal status to immigrants who came illegally to the U.S. as children . This comes as the U.S. Supreme Court evaluates the Trump administration 's decision to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals ( DACA ) , a program that has protected about 800,000 unauthorized immigrants who came to the U.S. as children – most of them from Mexico . Hispanic Democrats ( 92 % ) and Republicans ( 77 % ) both broadly support Congress creating a path to legal status for immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children .
Comparable proportions of Democrats who are college graduates ( 88 % ) and those with less education ( 82 % ) say that there is solid evidence that the earth is getting warmer . Among Democrats , higher education is associated with the belief that global warming is mostly caused by human activity . Fully 75 % of Democrats with college degrees say that the earth is warming and that this is caused by human activity .
Comparable proportions of Democrats who are college graduates ( 88 % ) and those with less education ( 82 % ) say that there is solid evidence that the earth is getting warmer . Among Democrats , higher education is associated with the belief that global warming is mostly caused by human activity . Fully 75 % of Democrats with college degrees say that the earth is warming and that this is caused by human activity .
When it comes to who will be targeted by made-up news in 2020 , 51 % of Democrats say this kind of misinformation will mostly be intended to hurt the Democratic Party , while just 4 % say it will be intended to hurt the Republican Party . Another 36 % of Democrats say such news will be intended to hurt both parties about equally .
Earlier surveys by Pew Research Center show that many Americans see the creation and spread of made-up news and information as a considerable problem . In an early 2019 survey , 50 % of U.S. adults said made-up news and information was a very big problem in the country today – a larger share than said the same about issues including racism , illegal immigration , terrorism and sexism . Around half or more also said made-up news has a big impact on political leaders ' ability to get work done ( 51 % ) , Americans ' confidence in each other ( 54 % ) and their confidence in the government ( 68 % ) .
There is widespread support across most of the NATO countries surveyed for the use of military force to maintain order in the world . A median of 57 % across 16 member countries agree that military force is sometimes necessary , while a median of 36 % disagree . Across most countries surveyed – both members of NATO and those that do not belong to the organization – about half or more support the use of military force to maintain order .
Americans just are n't picking up the phone much anymore . Eight-in-ten Americans say they do n't generally answer their cellphone when an unknown number calls , according to newly released findings from a Pew Research Center web survey of U.S. adults conducted July 13 - 19 , 2020 . But not all Americans are equally likely to ignore these calls .
The August Pew poll found that 46 % of the public says that Mitt Romney is very religious . This is comparable to the percentage saying that George W. Bush is very religious , and is much greater than for any other presidential candidate in the race for either party 's nomination .
Online daters widely believe that dishonesty is a pervasive issue on these platforms . A clear majority of online daters ( 71 % ) say it is very common for people on these platforms to lie about themselves to appear more desirable , while another 25 % think it is somewhat common . Only 3 % of online daters think this is not a common occurrence on dating platforms .
The public 's interest in economic news remains moderate and has not grown in recent months . Roughly a quarter of the public ( 27 % ) paid very close attention to economic news last week and 16 % listed this as the story they followed most closely .
Teens say anxiety and depression are a major problem among their peers . Seven-in-ten U.S. teens ages 13 to 17 said in a 2018 survey that anxiety and depression were a major problem among people their age in the community where they live – a pattern that does not vary substantially by household income . When asked about their own lives , a majority of teens ( 61 % ) said they face a lot of pressure to get good grades in school .
Since the Pew Research Center began consistently measuring internet penetration , educational attainment has been one of the strongest indicators of use . While a large majority of the well-educated has consistently been online , those without a college degree saw greater rates of adoption over the past 15 years and have notably lowered the access gap . Adults with a college or graduate degree are the most likely to use the internet , with almost all of these adults ( 95 % ) saying they are internet users .
Roughly half of Americans ( 48 % ) say it is acceptable for DNA testing companies to share customers ' genetic data with law enforcement agencies to help solve crimes , according to a Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted June 3 - 17 , 2019 . Fewer – a third – say this is unacceptable , while 18 % are unsure . Similar shares of Americans across most demographic groups say that law enforcement 's use of genetic data for crimes is acceptable , and that applies when asking specifically about Americans ' use of mail-in DNA tests .
The collapse of Utah 's Crandall Canyon Mine that trapped six mine workers and led to a major rescue effort topped the public 's news interest last week . Overall , nearly three-in-ten Americans ( 28 % ) said it was the story they followed more closely than any other . The coal mining accident shared the public 's attention for the most closely followed story of the week with the war in Iraq ( 16 % most closely ) and the 2008 presidential campaign ( 11 % ) .
About a third of 18- to 29-year-olds ( 35 % ) say the pandemic has been made a bigger deal than it really is , close to the overall average . But those youngest adults are more likely to say it has been made a smaller deal ( 32 % ) than any other age group . At the same time , fewer 18- to 29-year-olds say the outbreak has been approached about right ( 32 % ) than any other age group .
One frequently cited example of the U.S. turning around its image in a difficult environment is Indonesia , where U.S. humanitarian assistance following the horrific December 2004 tsunami helped improve America 's image in the world 's largest Muslim country . Prior to the tsunami , favorable attitudes toward the U.S. had plummeted in reaction to the Iraq war , however after the tragedy and the influx of American aid favorable views of the U.S. more than doubled , jumping from 15 % to 38 % . Recently , we have seen a similar , although more limited , pattern in Pakistan where American aid following the October 2005 earthquake helped drive favorable opinions of the U.S. up slightly , from 23 % in 2005 to 27 % in 2006 .
The Scooter Libby trial – a complex , inside-the-Beltway story – has yet to spark widespread interest among the public . Stories about the trial accounted for 3 - 4 % of the newshole during the last two weeks of January . The Libby trial has been the top news story for just 1 % of the public , and fewer than 10 % have been following it very closely .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 10 - 15 among 1,708 Americans , finds that despite the sweeping changes in Washington , the public remains dubious about prospects for bipartisanship . Only about a quarter ( 28 % ) believes that relations between the two parties will improve over the next year . And while the new Congress is less than a month old , just 39 % believe Democratic leaders are making an effort to reach out to Republicans on policy solutions , and even fewer see President Bush reaching out to Democrats ( 33 % ) .
Americans are deeply divided politically on climate change and energy issues . Seventy-one percent of Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party say Earth is getting warmer because of human activity , compared with 27 % of Republicans and independents who lean to the Republican Party . This finding is broadly consistent with other public polls and our previous research on climate change attitudes .
Turnout in the 2006 midterm election may well be higher than normal , given the level of interest expressed by voters . Today , 51 % of voters say they have given a lot of thought to this November 's election , up from 45 % at this point in 2002 and 42 % in early October of 1998 . Even in 1994 ­ a recent high in midterm election turnout ­ just 44 % of voters had thought a lot about the election in early October .
However , no such age differential appears on the question of whether Muslims in France want either to be distinct from the larger culture or to adopt its customs . Nearly eight-in-ten French Muslims ( 78 % ) say they want to adopt French customs . Those under age 35 are equally as likely to say this as are their elders .
Among American adults as a whole – including those who attend worship services and those who do n't – majorities say that religious organizations should stay out of politics and that they should n't endorse political candidates . Around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 76 % ) say churches and other houses of worship should not come out in favor of candidates during elections . Protestants in the historically black tradition ( a majority of whom are Democrats or lean toward the Democratic Party ) and evangelical Protestants ( a majority of whom are Republican or lean toward the Republican Party ) are more inclined than other major U.S. religious groups to say church endorsements are OK .
Most Westerners ( as well as Indians ) strongly disagree . Among those in the French general public who see Islamic identity on the rise , 87 % call it a bad thing ; in Germany , 83 % say so ; in Spain ( 82 % ) ; in India , 78 % .
In the Center 's survey , there 's no clear consensus among the public as to whether sharing this information with medical researchers is acceptable or not . About four-in-ten Americans ( 41 % ) say it is acceptable for makers of fitness trackers to share users ' data with medical researchers seeking to better understand the link between exercise and heart disease , while a somewhat smaller share ( 35 % ) believes this is an unacceptable practice . Another 22 % are unsure if this is an acceptable practice or not .
These differences are reflected as well in opinions about negative traits associated with Muslims . Roughly eight-in-ten Spanish ( 83 % ) and Germans ( 78 % ) say they associate Muslims with being fanatical . But that view is less prevalent in France ( 50 % ) , Great Britain ( 48 % ) and the U.S. ( 43 % ) .
Opposition to Iran developing nuclear weapons is nearly unanimous in Germany , Japan , France , and Great Britain , as well as in the U.S. Opinion in predominantly Muslim countries varies widely : solid majorities in Turkey ( 61 % ) and Indonesia ( 59 % ) oppose Iran acquiring nuclear weapons , but people in Egypt and Jordan are divided , and most Pakistanis ( 52 % ) favor Iran acquiring nuclear weapons . In addition , more people in major industrialized nations than in Muslim countries believe that Iran wants a nuclear program to develop weapons , not nuclear energy .
Views of how the U.S. compares with other countries have long been divided along partisan lines . But these differences have widened in recent years as Democrats have become more likely to say there are other countries that are better than the U.S . In telephone surveys , the share of Democrats saying this is higher than at any point since the question was first asked by Pew Research Center in 2011 , and there has been a corresponding decline in the share saying the U.S. stands above other nations .
Public attitudes about the measles , mumps and rubella ( MMR ) vaccine remain broadly positive in the United States , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . An overwhelming majority of U.S. adults ( 88 % ) say the benefits of the MMR vaccine outweigh the risks – the same share as in 2016 , when the Center last asked this question – while the share who consider its preventive health benefits to be `` very high '' has grown by 11 percentage points during that time ( from 45 % to 56 % ) . A 69 % majority of Americans consider the risk of side effects from the vaccine to be either low or very low , about the same as in 2016 .
Across a range of measures , Indian public opinion is consistently pro-American . The 2005 Pew Global Attitudes survey found that about seven-in-ten Indians ( 71 % ) have a favorable view of the United States . Of the 17 countries polled in the survey , only Americans themselves hold a more favorable view of their country .
In the 2013 survey , 84 % of LGBT adults said love was a very important reason to get married ; in a survey of the general public that year , 88 % shared that view . By wide margins , companionship and lifelong commitment were the next-most important reasons for LGBT adults , as well as for U.S. adults overall .
9 A majority of Americans see gender discrimination as a problem in the tech industry . Tech companies have faced criticism for their hiring practices and work cultures , including reports of discrimination on the basis of race and ethnicity and gender . A majority of Americans ( 73 % ) say discrimination against women is a problem in the tech industry , with 37 % citing it as a major problem , according to a summer 2017 survey .
Registered voters who support Donald Trump are about twice as likely as registered voters who support Joe Biden to say that the news sources they turn to most often have reported made-up information that is intended to mislead the public ( 45 % vs. 22 % ) . They are also somewhat more likely to say their news sources have reported breaking information that has n't been fully verified ( 59 % vs. 50 % ) and factual information presented to favor one side of an issue ( 73 % vs. 64 % ) .
In its geopolitical rivalry with China , U.S. efforts to `` pivot '' to Asia – both economically and militarily – have general public support on both sides of the Pacific . Roughly half or more of the publics in seven of the nine nations surveyed that are involved in negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership ( TPP ) trade and investment treaty , which is being pushed by the Obama administration , say such an accord would be good for their countries , though Americans are among the least supportive . Majorities or pluralities in five of eight TPP countries say it 's more important to have strong economic ties with the U.S. than China .
By comparison , 26 % of whites , 29 % of Hispanics and 33 % of Asians say the legacy of slavery affects the position of black people in American society a great deal , though majorities in each group say it does so at least a fair amount . This year marked the 400th anniversary of the arrival of the first slave ship in Jamestown , Virginia .
Public support for trade and multinational corporations and the lack of enthusiasm for protesters does not mean that people necessarily reject critics ' concerns . Majorities , in most cases strong majorities , in 34 of 44 nations thought the availability of good paying jobs had gotten worse in the last five years . And substantial majorities–82 % in France , 67 % in the United States , 63 % in Mexico–thought the gap between the rich and the poor had worsened .
2 Americans and Germans differ over which country is most important to their own nation 's foreign policy . In the U.S. , people are most likely to name the UK ( 36 % ) as the most or second-most important foreign policy partner for the U.S. Only about one-in-ten ( 13 % ) name Germany , ranking it fifth on Americans ' list .
There also is widespread disappointment among Muslims that Iraq did not put up more of a fight against the U.S. and its allies . Overwhelming majorities in Morocco ( 93 % ) , Jordan ( 91 % ) , Lebanon ( 82 % ) , Turkey ( 82 % ) , Indonesia ( 82 % ) , and the Palestinian Authority ( 81 % ) say they are disappointed the Iraqi military put up so little resistance . Many others around the world share that view , including people in South Korea ( 58 % ) , Brazil ( 50 % ) and Russia ( 45 % ) .
Awareness of contact tracing and perceptions of how often scams happen are linked to the steps people say they would be likely or comfortable to take in the process . Some seven-in-ten U.S. adults had seen or heard a great deal or some about contact tracing at the time this survey was taken in July , whereas three-in-ten ( 29 % ) had heard nothing at all or not too much about this process . Those who had seen or heard not much or nothing at all are least likely to say they would be comfortable or likely to engage with all three contact tracing steps explored here ( `` speak , share , quarantine '' ) .
Younger adults are far more likely than their elders to often get news on a mobile device . About seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) adults ages 18 to 29 often get news this way , compared with 38 % among those ages 65 and older . Conversely , those 65 and older are more likely to often get news on a desktop or laptop computer than those ages 18 to 29 ( 34 % vs. 23 % ) .
In a survey conducted in fall 2018 , more than four-in-five Lebanese adults ( 84 % ) said they use WhatsApp , the highest rate among 11 emerging economies included in the survey . It is the most commonly used social network or messaging platform in Lebanon , beating out Facebook , Instagram and other platforms .
A subsequent survey in summer 2019 found widespread discontent on a number of other questions . Around two-thirds or more of Lebanese adults said they are pessimistic about the future of their country 's political system ( 76 % ) ; disagree that the government is run for the benefit of all people ( 72 % ) ; are dissatisfied with how their country 's democracy is working ( 67 % ) ; and do not think most elected officials in their country care what people like them think ( 66 % ) .
Still , the majority of Americans are not confident about the way companies will behave when it comes to using and protecting their personal data . Roughly seven-in-ten or more say they are not too or not at all confident that companies will admit mistakes and take responsibility when they misuse or compromise data ( 79 % ) , will be held accountable by government if they misuse data ( 75 % ) , or will use customers ' data in ways that people would feel comfortable with ( 69 % ) .
3 More veterans say the military did a good job preparing them for life in the service than it did in readying them for the transition to civilian life . Veterans across eras offer similarly positive evaluations of the job the military did preparing them for military life , but less so when it comes to the return to civilian life . Roughly nine-in-ten veterans ( 91 % ) say the training they received when they first entered the military prepared them very or somewhat well for military life .
4 About half of post-9/11 veterans say readjusting to civilian life was difficult . While about three-quarters of all veterans ( 73 % ) say readjusting to civilian life was very or somewhat easy , roughly one-in-four ( 26 % ) say it was at least somewhat difficult . There is a significant gap between pre- and post-9/11 veterans in this regard .
3 Married adults have higher levels of relationship satisfaction and trust than those living with a partner . Married adults are more likely than those who are living with a partner to say things are going very well in their relationship ( 58 % vs. 41 % ) . They also express higher levels of satisfaction with specific aspects of their relationship , including the way household chores are divided between them and their spouse or partner , how well their spouse or partner balances work and personal life , how well they and their spouse or partner communicate , and their spouse 's or partner 's approach to parenting ( among those with children younger than 18 in the household ) .
7 Most Americans favor allowing unmarried couples to have the same legal rights as married couples . Roughly two-thirds of adults ( 65 % ) say they favor allowing unmarried couples to enter into legal agreements that would give them the same rights as married couples when it comes to things like health insurance , inheritance or tax benefits , while 34 % oppose this . Democrats and those who lean toward the Democratic Party are far more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to favor allowing these types of legal agreements for unmarried couples .
In this survey , Americans were asked specifically about how they would respond to outreach by public health officials trying to contact them to speak about the coronavirus outbreak . Half of respondents were asked how likely they would be to speak with a public health official on the phone or via text message about the coronavirus outbreak , and the remainder were asked how they would respond to a public health official who showed up at their residence . About four-in-ten Americans ( 41 % ) who were asked about their likelihood of speaking with a public health official if they contacted them by phone or text message say that they would be not at all or not too likely to do this , and 40 % of those asked about speaking with an official who showed up at their residence say they would be not at all or not too likely to do the same .
This new approach gave us tremendous flexibility . Not only did we find out how people report race , we could see how many Americans marked only one race for themselves but had a mixed-race background when their parents ' or grandparents ' racial makeup was considered . We also could see in which generation a different race or races appeared in the family tree , and how multiracial identity persists or fades over the generations .
Reflecting the modest share of all Twitter users they represent , older adults on Twitter do n't produce a great deal of the total content . But this group is much more inclined to talk about national politics in their tweets than younger users . Those ages 65 and older produce just 10 % of all tweets from U.S. adults , but these older Twitter users contribute 33 % of tweets related to national politics .
Partisans rate their parties . Most Republicans and Republican leaners ( 57 % ) say their party is not doing a good job of representing their views on same-sex marriage , and the party draws criticism from those on both sides of the issue .
Among all households headed by those ages 25 and older , median household income ( in 2018 dollars ) increased 13 % from 2012 ( $ 57,100 ) to 2018 ( $ 64,800 ) . The incomes of households headed by adults with a ninth to 12th grade education – but short of a high school diploma – increased 14 % during this span , likely the most of any education group . In contrast , the median income of households headed by adults with at least a bachelor 's degree rose by 8 % .
About three-in-four Americans ( 73 % ) say it 's likely that social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints they find objectionable , according to the June survey . Public perceptions have not changed much since the question was last asked in May and June of 2018 . And while majorities in both parties believe censorship is likely occurring , Republicans are much more likely than Democrats to say this ( 90 % vs. 59 % ) .
While public trust in scientists and their work can be mixed , a strong majority of the American public thinks of science as having a positive effect on society , and most expect continued benefits to accrue from science in the years ahead . About seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 73 % ) say science has had a positive effect on society , just 3 % say it has had a negative effect and 23 % say it has yielded an equal mix of positive and negative effects , according to a Pew Research Center survey . White adults are more likely than black and Hispanic adults to see the effects of science in positive terms .
The U.S. electorate is aging : 52 % of registered voters are ages 50 and older , up from 41 % in 1996 . This shift has occurred in both partisan coalitions . More than half of Republican and GOP-leaning voters ( 56 % ) are ages 50 and older , up from 39 % in 1996 .
A majority of Americans ( 57 % ) say they know only some of their neighbors ; far fewer ( 26 % ) say they know most of them . Americans ages 65 and older are more likely than those ages 18 to 29 to say they know most of their neighbors ( 34 % vs. 20 % ) . In contrast , about a quarter ( 23 % ) of adults under 30 do n't know any of their neighbors , compared with just 4 % among those 65 and older .
Student debt is less common among older age groups . Roughly one-in-five adults ages 30 to 44 ( 22 % ) have student loan debt , as do 4 % of those 45 and older .
Around eight-in-ten Republican registered voters ( 79 % ) are Christians , compared with about half ( 52 % ) of Democratic voters . In turn , Democratic voters are much more likely than GOP voters to identify as religiously unaffiliated ( 38 % vs. 15 % ) .
Fewer Americans voice confidence in Xi than say the same of leaders from other Asian nations , including Japan 's Shinzo Abe ( 61 % confidence ) and India 's Narendra Modi ( 42 % ) . However , many more think Xi will do the right thing regarding world affairs than North Korean leader Kim Jong Un , in whom a mere 9 % of Americans have confidence .
Still , some social media users are ambivalent about seeing these types of posts or find them enjoyable . About four-in-ten say they do n't feel strongly about encountering these discussions , while a much smaller share ( 15 % ) say they like seeing lots of political posts on social media .
When it comes to the impact their DNA test results have had on how they view themselves , 15 % of mail-in test users say their results changed the way they think about their racial or ethnic identity . Nonwhites are twice as likely as whites to say this ( 24 % vs. 12 % ) .
Public confidence in scientists to act in the public interest has increased in recent years . Overall , 35 % of Americans say they have a great deal of confidence in scientists , up 14 percentage points from 2016 . Americans have about the same level of confidence in scientists as they do in the military – and more than they do in some other groups and institutions , including the news media , business leaders and elected officials .
Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are largely united in backing a $ 15 an hour federal minimum wage : 86 % favor this , including nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) who say they strongly support it .
Overall , 58 % say North Korea 's leadership is not serious about addressing international concerns about their country 's nuclear enrichment program . This is higher than the share that said this in May 2018 ( 49 % ) . Today , 35 % say they think North Korea 's leadership is serious about addressing these concerns – similar to the share who expressed this view in 2018 .
Overall attitudes about tariff increases are little changed since last fall . Republicans and Republican leaners continue to have much more positive views of tariff increases than Democrats and Democratic leaners . About two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Republicans say that tariff increases have been good for the U.S. , while just 26 % say they have been bad for the country ( the share of Republicans saying they have been bad for the country is slightly higher than it was in September ) .
Fathers who are employed and at work cut back on the hours they spent on the job by a little more than mothers did . From September 2019 to September 2020 , the average weekly hours worked by fathers fell from 43.3 to 40.5 – nearly three hours per week . At the same time , mothers pared their average weekly hours from 36.8 to 35.0 , close to two hours per week .
Among those with a postgraduate degree , 95 % of Democrats feel colleges and universities are very or somewhat open to a wide range of opinions and viewpoints . Just 46 % of Republican postgraduates say the same . And among those with no college experience , 83 % of Democrats say higher education is open to differing viewpoints , compared with just 45 % of Republicans .
As fact-checking organizations are increasingly being tapped to fight against misinformation , Republicans appear to have serious concerns about the fairness of these groups . Democrats , on the other hand , mostly think they are fair to all sides . Overall , Americans are split in their views of fact-checkers : Half say fact-checking efforts by news outlets and other organizations tend to deal fairly with all sides , while about the same portion ( 48 % ) say they tend to favor one side , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Feb. 19 to March 4 , 2019 .
Looking at FBI data , we saw that Chicago did indeed have the highest total number of murders of any U.S. city in 2012 . But when adjusting for population , it was far from being the U.S. `` murder capital . '' Topping that list was Flint , Mich. , with 62 murders per 100,000 people .
Similar shares of adults younger than 30 express positive views of capitalism ( 52 % ) and socialism ( 50 % ) . Among older age groups , views of capitalism are more positive than opinions of socialism . Women are more likely than men to view socialism positively ( 46 % vs. 38 % ) , while a much larger share of men ( 74 % ) than women ( 56 % ) view capitalism positively .
Most black and Asian adults ( 63 % and 66 % , respectively ) say race or race relations come up in their conversations with family and friends at least sometimes , compared with about half of white ( 50 % ) and Hispanic ( 49 % ) adults . Blacks are more likely than other racial or ethnic groups to say these topics come up often ; 27 % of black adults say this compared with 11 % of white , 15 % of Hispanic and 13 % of Asian adults .
Large majorities say the tone and nature of political debate in the United States has become more negative in recent years – as well as less respectful , less fact-based and less substantive . Donald Trump is a major factor in people 's views about the state of the nation 's political discourse . A 55 % majority says Trump has changed the tone and nature of political debate in this country for the worse ; fewer than half as many ( 24 % ) say he has changed it for the better , while 20 % say he has had little impact .
The large drop in new arrivals is almost entirely due to a drop in the number of Mexican unauthorized immigrants coming to the U.S . In 2017 , Mexicans accounted for 20 % of unauthorized immigrants who came to the U.S. in the previous five years , compared with 52 % in 2007 . This represents a decrease in the average annual inflow of Mexican unauthorized immigrants , from about 375,000 per year in 2002 - 2007 to about 90,000 per year for 2012 - 2017 .
Across 25 countries surveyed in 2018 , at least a plurality of respondents in nine nations have favorable views of both the U.S. and China . For example , around half of adults in Kenya , the Philippines and Nigeria give positive marks to China and to the U.S . These nine countries include traditional American allies like Israel and the United Kingdom , as well as some of China 's neighbors in the Asia-Pacific region , including Indonesia and Australia .
Independents feel more negatively about political candidates and parties than partisans . In early 2018 , similar shares of Republicans ( 77 % ) and Democrats ( 74 % ) said the quality of candidates running for Congress in their district in the last several elections had been good . But those who leaned toward the parties were much less likely to say this .
A median of 69 % of adults across the 20 global publics favor expanding the use of natural gas , including about two-thirds or more in 16 of those places . The survey was conducted between October 2019 and March 2020 in the United States , Canada , Brazil , Russia and other places in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region .
Biden holds a 34-point advantage over Trump among Latino eligible voters , far larger than Biden 's 10-point lead among all U.S. voters . In the new survey , 63 % of Latino voters say they would vote for Biden or lean toward voting for him if the election were held today , while 29 % say they would vote for Trump or lean toward voting for him . In 2016 , Latino voters had similar preferences , according to exit polls and a Pew Research Center study of validated voters .
Overall , whites are less likely than blacks to say that blacks face at least some discrimination ( 77 % vs. 91 % ) . Among whites , there is a wide partisan gap in views of discrimination against blacks ( 91 % of white Democrats and Democratic leaners say there is at least some discrimination against blacks in our society , compared with 66 % of white Republicans ) . A similar pattern is seen for Hispanics .
Roughly two-thirds of Latino registered voters ( 68 % ) say they are fearful about the state of the nation . Meanwhile , 45 % of Latino voters say they are hopeful . These views are similar to those reported in June , and similar to those among U.S. voters overall .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted May 12 - 18 among 2,002 adults ( including 1,497 registered voters ) , finds increasing interest in the presidential campaign . The share of registered voters who say they are giving at least some thought to the presidential candidates has risen eight points since March , from 58 % to 66 % . However , just 29 % of registered voters say they are giving `` a lot '' of thought to candidates who may be running for president in 2016 .
When it comes to workplace automation that has already occurred , Americans are more likely to say it has hurt U.S. workers than helped them . Around half of U.S. adults ( 48 % ) say job automation through new technology in the workplace has mostly hurt American workers , while just 22 % say it has generally helped , according to the 2018 survey . About three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say these advances have neither helped nor hurt U.S. workers .
Overall , about six-in-ten Americans say they are bothered `` a lot '' by the feeling that some corporations ( 62 % ) and wealthy people ( 60 % ) do not pay their fair share in taxes . Fewer American express strong concerns about the complexity of the tax system ( 39 % say they are bothered a lot by this ) , the amount they pay in taxes ( 27 % ) and whether poor people pay their fair share in taxes ( 16 % ) .
More whites favor an active U.S. presence in world affairs than blacks or Hispanics . About half of white Americans ( 49 % ) say its best for the country to be active in world affairs , but just 39 % of Hispanics and 29 % of blacks say the same . More educated Americans are the most supportive of an active U.S. presence on the world stage .
Trump 's overall job approval has changed little since the beginning of his presidency . Currently , 55 % of Americans disapprove of his job as president , while 40 % approve . While men are evenly split in their views of Trump 's job performance ( 47 % approve , 47 % disapprove ) , women are far more likely to disapprove ( 63 % ) than approve ( 32 % ) .
As part of the July survey , the Center asked social media users who say they have changed their views about a political or social issue because of something they saw to describe a recent instance when this took place . Some 12 % of these adults say they changed their views – either positively or negatively – about the Black Lives Matter movement or about police brutality and the need for police reform . ( The responses below are lightly edited for spelling , style and readability .
When asked specifically about Kashmir , a majority of Indians ( 55 % ) see the situation there as a very big problem . More than half ( 53 % ) say circumstances in Kashmir have gotten worse over the last five years , and a majority ( 58 % ) believes the Indian government should use more military force than it uses currently in dealing with tensions in the area .
Family caregiving responsibilities , particularly motherhood , can lead to interruptions in career paths for women and can have an impact on long-term earnings . In a 2013 survey , women were more likely than men to say they had taken breaks from their careers to care for their family . Roughly four-in-ten mothers said that at some point in their work life they had taken a significant amount of time off ( 39 % ) or reduced their work hours ( 42 % ) to care for a child or other family member .
A median of 53 % say that migrants make their country stronger through their hard work and talents , while 41 % believe they take jobs and social benefits . Swedes and Brits are the most positive : Roughly six-in-ten think immigrant talent benefits their country , and half or more in Germany , Spain , France and the Netherlands say the same . But just 5 % in Hungary express this view .
Even though many people in the nations surveyed say they want less immigration , there is considerable support for accepting both refugees who flee violence ( a median of 77 % ) and immigrants who are highly skilled ( 64 % ) . At the same time , large shares back deporting immigrants currently in the country illegally ( a median of 69 % ) . When asked if highly skilled people from other nations should be encouraged to move to their country , roughly half or more in eight of 10 European countries polled support this approach .
A median of 25 % across the 10 European countries polled say France plays a more important role in the world . Views that France 's global position has remained the same are widespread . A plurality in eight of 10 countries say France plays as important a role as it did 10 years ago .
A majority of U.S. adults trust medical scientists a lot for information about vaccines . Some 55 % of Americans said in 2016 that they trust medical scientists a lot to give full and accurate information about the health risks and benefits of the childhood MMR vaccine . Another 35 % said they have some trust in medical scientists , while just 9 % said they trust them not too much or not at all .
In the survey , conducted in France and 14 other Western European countries , the Center asked whether people agreed or disagreed with two strongly worded negative statements : `` Jews always pursue their own interests and not the interest of the country they live in , '' and `` Jews always overstate how much they have suffered . '' Roughly seven-in-ten or more French respondents either completely or mostly disagreed with these statements , while about one-in-five completely or mostly agreed with them .
In most of the countries surveyed , relatively few people ( median of 34 % ) have access to a desktop computer , laptop or tablet in their household . The exception is Lebanon , where a majority of adults ( 57 % ) say they have access to such a device . As with most other measures of technological connectedness , those who are younger and more educated are generally more likely to have access to a computer or tablet at home .
Those in every country surveyed worry about the impact of mobile phones on children . Across these 11 emerging economies , a median of 79 % of adults say people should be very concerned about children being exposed to harmful or immoral content when using their phones . In most countries , half or more say mobile phones and the internet have had a bad impact on children – more than the percentage who say they are concerned about the influence of technology on other facets of society included in the survey , such as politics , local culture and morality .
Those in every country surveyed worry about the impact of mobile phones on children . Across these 11 emerging economies , a median of 79 % of adults say people should be very concerned about children being exposed to harmful or immoral content when using their phones . In most countries , half or more say mobile phones and the internet have had a bad impact on children – more than the percentage who say they are concerned about the influence of technology on other facets of society included in the survey , such as politics , local culture and morality .
More than eight-in-ten registered voters ( 84 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident that people who are legally qualified and want to vote will be able to cast a ballot , while nearly as many ( 79 % ) express confidence that in-person polling places will be run safely and without spreading the coronavirus . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident that after all votes are counted , it will be clear who won the election , while 62 % are at least somewhat confident that people who are not legally qualified to vote will be prevented from casting ballots . While most voters express at least some confidence in these four aspects of the presidential election , relatively small shares are very confident of each .
First , at both a personal and societal level publics are generally more likely to say mobile phones have had a mostly good impact than to say the same of social media . A median of 70 % of adults across these 11 countries say mobile phones have been a mostly good thing for society , but that share falls to 57 % on the question of the impact of social media . Indeed , a median of 27 % think social media have been a mostly bad thing for society .
Conversely , although about three-quarters of Biden voters say they are at least somewhat confident that all voters who are legally qualified and want to vote will be able to cast a ballot , nearly all ( 99 % ) say it is important that they be able to do so . Among Trump supporters , more than nine-in-ten say both that they are confident that all eligible voters will be able to cast ballots ( 93 % ) and that this is important ( 99 % ) .
Half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) who say they attend religious services at least once a month report drinking alcohol in the past 30 days , according to the survey . That compares with roughly six-in-ten ( 62 % ) among people who attend worship services less often or not at all . Similarly , only 13 % of monthly attenders engaged in recent binge drinking – defined as four or more drinks on a single occasion for women and five or more for men – compared with 21 % of less frequent attenders .
And while the UK and China rank in the top three positions across party lines , more Republicans ( 25 % ) than Democrats ( 5 % ) name Israel as a top foreign policy partner for the U.S . There are also significant partisan differences in opinion on views about Canada and Mexico .
The two publics have moved in opposite directions regarding defense spending , which has been a contentious issue in relations between the U.S. and its NATO allies . The share of Americans who say their European allies should increase their defense spending dropped by 6 percentage points between 2017 and 2018 , while the share saying European allies should keep their spending about the same rose 9 points . Germans , on the other hand , saw an 11-point increase in the share saying they wanted their own country to spend more on national defense .
In the same survey , nearly half of U.S. adults ( 46 % ) named local news outlets as a major source for COVID-19 news – more than the share who named several other groups , including President Donald Trump and the coronavirus task force ( 31 % ) . Other local information sources were seen as important as well : For example , 36 % of adults said state and local elected officials were a major source of news about the outbreak , while 16 % said the same about friends , family and neighbors , and 8 % named community newsletters or Listservs . In all , 64 % of U.S. adults named at least one of these local information sources as a major source for coronavirus news .
Among both Gen Zers and Millennials , 53 % say people of different races marrying each other is a good thing for our society , compared with 41 % of Gen Xers , 30 % of Boomers and 20 % of those in the Silent Generation , according to the Center 's 2019 report . Millennials and Generation Z have been at the vanguard of changing views on same-sex marriage . About half of Gen Zers and Millennials say gay and lesbian couples being allowed to marry is a good thing for our society , while 33 % of Gen Xers , 27 % of Boomers and 18 % of Silents say the same , according to the 2019 report .
Around four-in-ten white evangelical Protestants ( 38 % ) say humans have always existed in their present form , and about a quarter ( 27 % ) of black Protestants share this view , according to the new study . Among white mainline Protestants , just 16 % say humans have always existed in their present form . Similar shares of Catholics ( 13 % ) and the religiously unaffiliated ( 11 % ) say the same .
German reticence about taking on more international burdens can be seen in public attitudes toward greater sharing of the global security burden . Asked if Germany should play a more active military role in helping to maintain peace and stability in the world , only 25 % of Germans agree . Just over two-thirds ( 69 % ) believe that , given its history , Germany should limit its military role in world affairs .
Russia 's power and influence is seen as a major threat by a median of four-in-ten across the continent , about the same share that sees U.S. power and influence as a threat ( median of 37 % ) . Meanwhile , only 35 % see the condition of the global economy as a major threat , as European countries have mostly recovered from the Great Recession and subsequent euro crisis . A median of 31 % see China as a major threat .
Foreign policy : Defending the country against terrorism remains one of the public 's top policy priorities . A majority of Americans ( 67 % ) say terrorism should be a top priority this year , though this differs greatly by party . Looking at foreign conflicts , the U.S. public is divided over whether withdrawing U.S. troops from Syria is the right ( 43 % ) or wrong ( 45 % ) decision .
The destinations of emigrants from Latin American and Caribbean countries have changed somewhat since 1990 , though the United States remains the overwhelming destination of choice . The U.S. was home to 67 % of the region 's emigrants in 2017 , almost unchanged from 62 % in 1990 . In 2017 , 16 % of emigrants lived in other Latin American-Caribbean countries , down from 26 % in 1990 .
While at least 13 % of voting members in Congress are immigrants or children of immigrants , relatively few of these are foreign born : 13 in the House , and just one – Sen. Mazie Hirono , D-Hawaii – in the Senate . These 14 immigrant lawmakers represent just 3 % of all voting members in both chambers , a slight uptick from recent Congresses but substantially below the foreign-born share of Congresses many decades ago . ( For example , about 10 % of members in the first and much smaller Congress of 1789 - 91 were foreign born .
This second survey , conducted May 29 to June 11 , 2018 , reveals that social media users generally believe it would be relatively easy for the platforms they use to determine key traits about them based on the data they have amassed about their behaviors . Majorities of social media users say it would be very or somewhat easy for these platforms to determine their race or ethnicity ( 84 % ) , their hobbies and interests ( 79 % ) , their political affiliation ( 71 % ) or their religious beliefs ( 65 % ) . Some 28 % of social media users believe it would be difficult for these platforms to figure out their political views , nearly matching the share of Facebook users who are assigned a political listing but believe that listing is not very or not at all accurately .
Overall , just 36 % of the public approves of how Trump is handling negotiations over the government shutdown , including 23 % who say they strongly approve . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) disapprove of Trump 's approach to the negotiations , including 53 % who say they strongly disapprove .
Gender differences are also seen within each party . Republican men stand out for valuing people being able to speak their minds freely online over people being able to feel welcome and safe online . These Republican men ( 63 % ) are more likely than Republican women ( 44 % ) and both Democratic men ( 44 % ) and women ( 34 % ) to back that idea .
A majority of U.S. teens ages 13 to 17 ( 57 % ) fear a shooting could happen at their school , and most parents of teens share their concern . Nonwhite teens express greater concern over the possibility of a shooting at their school than white teens , and girls are more likely than boys to cite such concern . Most parents also share the concern of a shooting at their children 's school .
Most people around the globe say China plays a more important role in the world today than it did a decade ago – but most also say it 's better for the U.S. to lead the way . A median of 70 % across 25 countries say China is playing a more important role today compared with 10 years ago , while 31 % think the same about the U.S. At the same time , a median of 63 % believe it would be better to have the U.S. as the world 's leading power , but just 19 % say this about China . When it comes to which of the two nations is currently the world 's leading economic power , a median of 39 % point to the U.S. , while 34 % name China .
Amid rising coronavirus cases and widespread protests over racial injustice , President Donald Trump 's approval rating has dropped among a wide range of religious groups , including white evangelical Protestants – though they remain strongly supportive . Roughly seven-in-ten white evangelical Protestants ( 72 % ) say they approve of the way Trump is handling his job , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 16 to 22 . That is a 6 percentage point drop from 78 % recorded in April , in line with the 5-point drop during that period among U.S. adults overall .
The global economic mood has improved somewhat in recent years , but many are still pessimistic about the future . In the United States , Japan and several European nations , economic confidence has rebounded from the depths of the Great Recession . For instance , 78 % of Germans believe their national economy is in good shape , compared with just 28 % in 2009 .
In U.S. congressional races nationwide , an estimated 69 % of Latinos voted for the Democratic candidate and 29 % backed the Republican candidate , a more than two-to-one advantage for Democrats , according to National Election Pool exit poll data . These results largely reflect the party affiliation of Latinos . In a Pew Research Center pre-election survey , 62 % of Latinos said they identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party compared with 27 % who affiliated with the Republican Party .
About a quarter of Hispanics who cast a ballot in 2018 ( 27 % ) said they were voting in a midterm for the first time , compared with 18 % of black voters and 12 % of white voters , according to the exit polls . Meanwhile , many new voters this year were young . A majority of voters younger than 30 said they were voting in a midterm for the first time .
There were wide differences in voting preferences between men and women , whites and nonwhites , as well as people with more and less educational attainment . The gender gap in voting preference is not new , but it is at least as wide as at any point over the past two decades , according to exit polls by the National Election Pool , as reported by CNN . Women favored the Democratic candidate in their district by 19 percentage points ( 59 % to 40 % ) while men voted for the Republican 51 % to 47 % .
For example , close to nine-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 86 % ) believe these platforms are very or somewhat important for creating sustained social movements , compared with around seven-in-ten conservative or moderate Democrats ( 73 % ) and just over half of liberal or moderate Republicans ( 56 % ) and conservative Republicans ( 53 % ) . Partisans ' views are more closely aligned when they are asked about the importance of these platforms for getting elected officials to pay attention to issues or influencing policy decisions .
Black Protestants , who overwhelmingly identify as Democrats or as Democratic-leaning independents , are the religious group with by far the most positive views toward Biden . Roughly half ( 54 % ) say he would make a good ( 34 % ) or great ( 20 % ) president , while 36 % say he would be an average president and just 8 % say he would be poor or terrible . Meanwhile , eight-in-ten Black Protestants say Trump has been a poor ( 16 % ) or terrible ( 63 % ) president .
Across the 14 countries surveyed , a median of 78 % say they have no confidence in Chinese President Xi to do the right thing when it comes to international affairs , with at least seven-in-ten in every country saying they lack confidence in Xi . Only a median of 19 % express any trust .
There is a general lack of confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping . A median of 34 % across the countries surveyed voice confidence in Xi , while 56 % lack confidence in him . This puts him slightly ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin ( 30 % ) and U.S. President Donald Trump ( 27 % ) in international confidence ratings , but behind German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron .
Attending a political campaign event or speech is the second most common type of participation among those surveyed – a median of 33 % have done this at least once . Fewer people report participating in volunteer organizations ( a median of 27 % ) , posting comments on political issues online ( 17 % ) , participating in an organized protest ( 14 % ) or donating money to a social or political organization ( 12 % ) .
The overall education gap in views of the stakes of the 2018 midterms is driven largely by divides among those who support Democratic candidates for Congress in their district . Overall , 85 % of Democratic voters with a postgraduate degree say it really matters which party wins control of Congress this fall , compared with 67 % of Democratic voters with no college experience . There are no significant education divides among voters who support Republican candidates for Congress in their district .
A number of congressional districts in the South saw the fastest growth of Latino eligible voters in the country . North Carolina 's 8th District saw the nation 's largest increase ( 163.2 % ) in Latino eligible voters between 2014 and 2017 . The next five districts with the largest growth during this time are Florida 's 6th ( up 110.3 % ) , North Carolina 's 5th ( 71.3 % ) and Florida 's 16th ( 70.5 % ) .
While less common than keeping in touch with the people in their lives , around half of online sub-Saharan Africans use the internet to get news and information about politics ( median of 53 % of internet users ) or public or government services ( 51 % ) . Another four-in-ten use it to access information about health and medicine ( 41 % ) .
On social media , too , most people are gravitating toward social activities over political , religious or commercial ones . Among the minority of sub-Saharan Africans who use social media ( ranging from 43 % in South Africa to 20 % in Tanzania ) , more say they share their views on entertainment-related topics like music , movies and sports than say they post about politics , religion or products they enjoy .
Looking at voters ' priorities for immigration policy , there is some common ground among partisans . When asked whether the policy priority should be `` creating a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if they meet certain requirements , '' or `` better border security and stronger enforcement of our immigration laws '' – or whether both should be given equal priority – nearly half of Republican voters ( 48 % ) and about as many Democratic voters ( 45 % ) say both should be given equal priority .
While mobile networks in sub-Saharan Africa have spread rapidly , landline penetration in the seven countries surveyed is close to zero . A median of only 2 % across these nations say they have a working landline telephone in their house , with a median of 97 % saying they do not have one . There is little variation across the countries on landline ownership .
When asked to choose between the U.S. and China as the preferred leading power for the world , Americans clearly prefer their own country . But only 13 % of Russians choose the U.S. Nearly three times as many Russians prefer China ( 35 % ) over the U.S. , and a similar share of Russians volunteer `` neither , '' which might indicate displeasure with Russia not being offered as a category for this question .
Youth is a defining characteristic of the U.S. Latino population . About six-in-ten Latinos ( 61 % ) in the U.S. were 35 or younger in 2016 . The number of young Latinos –35 million – increased 20 % from a decade earlier , making it one of the largest and fastest-growing youth populations in the country .
Biden gets his most positive rating for his temperament : 60 % of registered voters describe him as even-tempered , more than twice the share who describe Trump this way . Moreover , a 54 % majority describes Biden as caring about the needs of ordinary people ; only 41 % say this phrase describes Trump very or somewhat well . And more voters say Biden is a good role model and describe him as honest than say that about Trump , by 15 percentage points and 12 points , respectively .
Among the public overall , 30 % say they support legalizing marijuana use and have always felt that way , while 21 % have changed their minds ; they say there was a time when they thought it should be illegal . By contrast , 35 % say they oppose legalization and have always felt that way ; just 7 % have changed their minds from supporting to opposing legalization .
And while the broadband gap between rural and non-rural Americans has narrowed over time , rural adults remain less likely to have a high-speed internet connection at home . Seven-in-ten suburban residents and two-thirds of urban dwellers say they subscribe to broadband services at home , compared with 58 % of rural adults , according to a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted in January .
On Iran , by contrast , there are major differences . While majorities in both parties have cold feelings , these views are much more widespread – and more intensely negative – among Republicans . A 64 % majority of Republicans have very cold feelings toward Iran , compared with only 34 % of Democrats .
When it comes to evaluating their own online habits , teens express mixed views about whether or not they themselves spend too much time on various screens . Roughly half ( 54 % ) believe they spend too much time on their cellphone , while 41 % say they spend too much time on social media . By contrast , only around one-quarter ( 26 % ) believe they spend too much time playing video games – comparable to the share ( 22 % ) who say they spend too little time gaming .
When asked about the possibility of influencing the internal affairs of other countries , Russians are divided on their own government 's actions . Nearly equal numbers say the Russian government mostly stays out of the internal affairs of other countries ( 46 % ) as say it does try to influence other nations ( 45 % ) . Young Russians ( ages 18 to 29 ) are more likely to say Russia tries to interfere abroad ( 56 % ) than those 50 and older ( 41 % ) .
The six countries where confidence in Merkel is now at its highest level on record are the United Kingdom ( where 76 % have confidence in her ) , Canada ( 74 % ) , Spain and Australia ( both 72 % ) , Japan ( 67 % ) and the United States ( 61 % ) . In France and Italy , confidence in Merkel was higher prior to the eurozone crisis than it is now . And in Japan , the Netherlands , South Korea and Sweden , more people had confidence in Merkel in the years following the height of the refugee crisis than currently .
Expectations also vary by self-reported familiarity with gene editing . Those who have heard a lot about gene editing to change a baby 's genetic characteristics are more inclined to anticipate positive outcomes from its widespread use . Some 36 % of this group thinks it is very likely that the widespread availability of gene editing would pave the way for new medical advances that are beneficial to society , compared with about half as many of those who have heard a little or nothing about gene editing ( 16 % ) .
While there is a gap in views among Democrats by level of education , there are no such educational differences among Republicans . Democrats with a college degree take an overwhelmingly negative view of the new tariffs : 89 % of college-educated Democrats think they will be bad for the U.S . Among Democrats without a college degree , a somewhat smaller share ( 70 % ) takes this view .
Those who have a favorable opinion of populist parties in Germany and Sweden , for example , are only slightly less likely than those with unfavorable views to be upbeat about the economy . Roughly three-quarters ( 77 % ) of those who have a favorable opinion of the populist Alternative for Germany party ( AfD ) say their country 's economic situation is good ; that compares with 87 % among other Germans . Similarly , three-quarters of those with a positive view of the populist Sweden Democrats party say their country 's economic situation is good , compared with 91 % among other Swedes .
Among posts that expressed this kind of confrontational rhetoric , 13 % of the reactions to the average post received `` angry '' feedback . By comparison , just 3 % of reactions for posts that did not express political opposition were angry . However , when it comes to the `` love '' reaction , there was no meaningful difference in the rates at which the congressional Facebook audience responded to confrontational posts ( about 4 % both for posts expressing opposition and for those not expressing opposition ) .
Four decades after the birth of Louise Brown , the first `` test-tube baby '' conceived via in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) , 33 % of American adults report that they or someone they know has used some type of fertility treatment in order to try to have a baby , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The share of people who say they have undergone a fertility treatment or know someone who has varies markedly by education and income . About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) of those with a bachelor 's degree have had some exposure to fertility treatment – either through their own experience or that of someone they know – and the share rises to 56 % among those with a postgraduate degree .
While populist attitudes span the ideological spectrum , populist political parties are relatively unpopular in Western Europe . Across the surveyed countries , around four-in-ten adults or fewer have a favorable view of the populist party ( or parties ) in their nation . For example , only 34 % of people in Denmark have a favorable view of the Danish People 's Party ; 23 % of people in the UK view the UK Independence Party favorably ; and 16 % of French adults see the National Front favorably .
Among those who often or sometimes have contact with immigrants who speak little or no English , fewer say this bothers them today ( 26 % ) than did so in 2006 ( 38 % ) or in the 1990s .
When asked about the appropriate role of government in regulating major technology companies , around half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) believe these companies should be regulated more than they are now . Around one-in-ten ( 9 % ) feel they should be regulated less than they are now , while 38 % say their current level of regulation is appropriate . Although Republicans are more likely than Democrats to see an anti-conservative bias among major technology companies , this attitude does not translate into a broader desire by Republicans for increased regulation of these companies .
But Americans and Japanese differ on Japan 's role in regional security . Seven decades after the end of World War II , the American public is divided over whether Japan should play a more active military role in helping to maintain peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region : 47 % would like to see Tokyo take a more active role and 43 % would prefer that Japan limit its role . Americans who trust Japan also say they want Tokyo to play a greater strategic role in the region .
A 54 % majority of women voters say they support or lean toward the Democratic candidate in their district , while 38 % favor the Republican . Among men voters , by contrast , 49 % favor the Republican , while 43 % support the Democrat . The gender divide is much wider among younger voters – those under 35 – than among voters 35 and older .
There also are race , age and educational differences in these views . Whites are divided ( 48 % favor , 48 % oppose ) , while large majorities of Hispanics ( 73 % ) and blacks ( 71 % ) oppose expanding the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border .
By nearly two-to-one ( 65 % to 33 % ) , Republicans with at least a four-year college degree hold unfavorable opinions of labor unions . By contrast , opinion is divided among Republicans who do not have a college degree ( 45 % unfavorable , 42 % favorable ) .
Disclosures about government surveillance prompted some Americans to change the way they use technology . In a survey by the Center in late 2014 and early 2015 , 87 % of Americans said they had heard at least something about government surveillance programs . Among those who had heard something , 25 % said they had changed the patterns of their technology use `` a great deal '' or `` somewhat '' since the Snowden revelations .
Americans broadly found it acceptable for the government to monitor certain people , but not U.S. citizens , according to the 2014 - 15 survey . About eight-in-ten adults ( 82 % ) said it was acceptable for the government to monitor communications of suspected terrorists , and equal majorities said it was acceptable to monitor communications of American leaders and foreign leaders ( 60 % each ) . Yet 57 % of Americans said it was unacceptable for the government to monitor the communications of U.S. citizens .
As smartphone access has become more prevalent , a growing share of teens now report using the internet on a near-constant basis . Some 45 % of teens say they use the internet `` almost constantly , '' a figure that has nearly doubled from the 24 % who said this in the 2014 - 2015 survey . Another 44 % say they go online several times a day , meaning roughly nine-in-ten teens go online at least multiple times per day .
Irish voters recently approved a measure that modifies the country 's constitution and opens the door to legal abortion in a broader array of circumstances – perhaps more in line with the rest of Western Europe . The vote ( with 66 % approving the referendum ) underscores the findings in a new Pew Research Center report , which shows that people in Ireland – like those in 14 other Western European countries – believe abortion should be legal in all or most cases .
Majorities of urban and rural residents also say people who do n't live in their type of community have at least a somewhat negative view of those who do ( 63 % in urban and 56 % in rural areas say this ) , while a much smaller share in suburban areas ( 36 % ) say their type of community is seen negatively by those in other areas .
An estimated 5.6 million Hispanics of Puerto Rican origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Puerto Ricans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Puerto Rican origin and lived in the 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia ; this includes those who were born in Puerto Rico and those who trace their family ancestry to Puerto Rico . Since 2000 , the Puerto Rican-origin U.S. population has increased 65 % , growing from 3.4 million to 5.6 million over the period .
However , nearly eight-in-ten in Denmark ( 78 % ) express skepticism that more international cooperation would have led to fewer coronavirus cases in their country . Clear majorities in Australia ( 59 % ) and Germany ( 56 % ) say the same . In these same countries , roughly nine-in-ten or more say their own government handled the coronavirus outbreak well .
When it comes to policies aimed at reducing the effects of global climate change , about half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) believe these policies have net benefits for the environment . Three-in-ten say these policies make no difference for the environment and about two-in-ten ( 19 % ) believe these policies end up doing more harm than good for the environment . As with other climate issues , there are sizable political divides over the effects of climate policies .
About seven-in-ten Americans approve of direct talks with North Korea today ; in March of 2015 , shortly before the Iran agreement was reached , only about half of the public ( 49 % ) supported negotiating directly with Iran over its nuclear program . A larger share ( 63 % ) supported direct U.S. talks with Iran in 2009 .
Most partisans say their side in politics is `` losing . '' A large majority of the public ( 67 % ) says `` their side '' in politics has been losing more often than winning in recent years on issues that matter to them . As in the past , this sentiment is less pronounced among those who support the party in control of the White House than the party out of power .
Overall , similar shares of registered voters are very or somewhat confident in Trump ( 51 % ) and Biden ( 48 % ) to make good decisions about economic policy , although voters are more likely to say they are very confident in Trump ( 33 % vs. 13 % ) . And about as many voters express confidence in Biden ( 46 % ) as Trump ( 43 % ) to effectively handle law enforcement and criminal justice issues . And more voters are confident in Biden than Trump to bring the country closer together .
On a question about morality , Hispanic teens hold different opinions from their White , non-Hispanic peers . Hispanic teens are about evenly split on the question of whether it is necessary to believe in God in order to be moral and have good values : 50 % say it is not necessary , while 48 % say it is . By comparison , 71 % of White teens say that a belief in God is unnecessary to be moral and 28 % say it is necessary .
And although 61 % of Germans have a favorable view of the UN , they share some skepticism about the organization 's care for ordinary citizens and its handling of climate change . A majority of Germans say the UN does not care about the needs of ordinary people , and 47 % think it does not promote action on climate change , an issue that ranks as Germany 's top international concern .
In both nations , there are partisan differences over what binds the two countries together .1 Among Americans , Republicans clearly see defense ties as most important ( 47 % ) , with 28 % naming economic and trade ties and just 12 % naming shared values . Democrats are almost evenly divided across the three options .
Americans are much less likely to see Germany in this way – only 12 % name Germany as one of America 's top two partners . Still , Germany does make the top four , trailing Great Britain ( 33 % ) and China ( 24 % ) and tying with Israel ( 12 % ) .
Nearly half of Republicans with incomes under $ 40,000 ( 47 % ) say that the government does not provide enough assistance for poor people . This is considerably higher than those who make between $ 40,000 and $ 75,000 or $ 75,000 or more ; only about three-in-ten in these income brackets say that poor people do not receive enough assistance ( 32 % and 28 % , respectively ) .
Terrorism and global threats : Defending against terrorism continues to rank among the public 's leading priorities for the president and Congress , with nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) saying it is a top priority .
As in the past , there are wide religious differences in Middle East sympathies . White evangelical Protestants continue to overwhelmingly sympathize with Israel : 78 % say this , while just 5 % sympathize more with the Palestinians . Other religious groups sympathize more with Israel than the Palestinians , though by much smaller margins .
At this early point in his term , a plurality ( 42 % ) of Americans say that Trump is `` striking the right balance '' when it comes to Middle East policy . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say Trump favors Israel too much , while just 3 % say Trump favors the Palestinians too much ; 25 % do not offer an opinion . Today , nearly half of Democrats ( 46 % ) say Trump favors Israel too much , while just 21 % say he is striking the right balance .
Opinions of Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , are basically unchanged from last year . About as many say they have a favorable view ( 31 % ) as an unfavorable opinion ( 28 % ) of Netanyahu ; 41 % express no opinion of Israel 's prime minister .
When Americans are asked why more students do n't pursue a degree in science , technology , engineering or math ( STEM ) , they are most likely to point to the difficulty of these subjects , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . About half of adults ( 52 % ) say the main reason young people do n't pursue STEM degrees is they think these subjects are too hard . In the new Center survey , Americans with a college degree or more education are more likely than those with less education to say the main reason is that young people think STEM subjects are too hard ( 63 % vs. 46 % ) .
In addition , around six-in-ten black STEM employees ( 57 % ) say their workplace pays too little attention to increasing racial and ethnic diversity . Most whites , Hispanics and Asians , by comparison , believe their employer pays about the right amount of attention to diversity .
Blacks and Hispanics are underrepresented in the STEM workforce . Overall , blacks and Hispanics are underrepresented in the STEM workforce relative to their shares in the U.S. workforce as a whole . This underrepresentation is evident across all STEM job clusters , with one exception : 11 % of health care practitioners and technicians are black , similar to the share of blacks in the total workforce .
Differences along racial and ethnic lines are even more dramatic . About half of black fathers ( 47 % ) are living apart from at least one of their children ages 17 or younger , and 36 % are living apart from all of their children . Far lower shares of Hispanic ( 26 % ) and white ( 17 % ) fathers are living apart from one or more of their children .
Younger adults are using online streaming services as their go-to platform for watching television . About six-in-ten Americans ages 18 to 29 ( 61 % ) report that online streaming is the primary way they watch television , according to Center survey data from August . Smaller shares of 18- to 29-year-olds said their primary way of watching TV is via a cable or satellite subscription or through a digital antenna .
The partisan gap is similar among White adults . About nine-in-ten White Democrats ( 88 % ) express at least some support for the Black Lives Matter movement , compared with 16 % of White Republicans . And while about half of White Democrats ( 51 % ) say they strongly support the movement , just 2 % of White Republicans say the same .
Immigrant and second-generation self-identified Hispanics ( 57 % and 50 % respectively ) are most likely to say their parents talked often about their pride in their country of origin roots . But by the third generation , only 33 % say their parents talked often about their pride in their roots while growing up .
Growing share see strong partisan conflicts The nearly two-thirds of Americans who see very strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans in the U.S. today is up from 56 % who said this in December 2016 and 47 % who said this in December 2012 .
Whites are divided in their views of the level of attention paid to race and racial issues : While 36 % think there is too much , about as many ( 38 % ) say there is too little . By contrast , fully 68 % of blacks say there is too little attention paid to race today ; just 15 % say there is too much . A 55 % majority of Hispanics also say there is too little attention on race .
The survey also asked Americans who say they do not use voice assistants about their reasons for not using them . Some 61 % of these non-users say they are just not interested in the tool . Around one-quarter of this group say they do not use voice assistants because none of the devices they own have this feature ( 28 % ) or because they are concerned about privacy ( 27 % ) .
While a median of 53 % across the same countries also see Iran playing a more important role , fewer in the region say that Israel and Saudi Arabia have gained influence in the past 10 years . The only country the surveyed publics see as less influential a decade on is Egypt .1
Religious differences also extend to questions about societal acceptance of transgender people . Most white evangelical Protestants ( 61 % ) say society has `` gone too far '' when it comes to accepting people who are transgender . And Pew Research Center polling conducted in the summer of 2016 found that seven-in-ten white evangelical Protestants think that transgender people should be required to use the public restrooms that correspond with their birth gender .
For instance , just 41 % in the United Kingdom express a favorable opinion of the U.S. , the lowest percentage registered in any Pew Research Center survey there . In France , only 31 % see the U.S. positively , matching the grim ratings from March 2003 , at the height of U.S.-France tensions over the Iraq War . Germans give the U.S. particularly low marks on the survey : 26 % rate the U.S. favorably , similar to the 25 % in the same March 2003 poll .
Women continue to bear a heavier burden when it comes to balancing work and family , despite progress in recent decades to bring about gender equality in the workplace . A 2013 Pew Research Center survey found that , among parents with at least some work experience , mothers with children under age 18 were about three times as likely as fathers to say that being a working parent made it harder for them to advance in their job or career ( 51 % vs. 16 % ) .
There is no consensus on whether society has been too accepting of transgender people or not accepting enough . About four-in-ten adults ( 39 % ) say society has not gone far enough in accepting people who are transgender , while 32 % say society has gone too far and 27 % say it has been about right . Partisanship is at play here as well , as Republicans and Democrats express opposite views .
Only 2 % of foreign policy experts think military rule would be appropriate for governing their countries . Publics across Western Europe and North America roughly mirror experts , with a median of 11 % saying they think a military government would be a good thing . Again , though , support varies across countries .
Several Asian countries have greater confidence in Trump than in Chinese President Xi Jinping . While Trump faces low global confidence overall , greater shares of people in the Philippines , Vietnam and Japan are confident in Trump than in China 's leader . ( Within the region , Filipinos had the highest confidence in Xi , at 53 % , while the Japanese had the lowest at 11 % .
As with his overall job rating , Trump engenders strong feelings on taxes : 42 % are `` not at all confident '' that he can make wise decisions on taxes , which is much higher than the shares expressing no confidence in Republican leaders ( 31 % ) or Democratic leaders ( 24 % ) . On the other hand , far more say they are `` very confident '' in Trump ( 22 % ) than say that about GOP leaders ( 9 % ) or Democratic leaders ( 11 % ) .
Facebook claims the largest share of social media news consumers , and its news users are much more likely to rely solely on that site for news . Just under half ( 45 % ) of U.S. adults use Facebook for news . Half of Facebook 's news users get news from that social media site alone , with just one-in-five relying on three or more sites for news .
Core Conservatives are more likely than other GOP-leaning groups to say they follow politics and government most of the time and say they always vote . Consequently , while Core Conservatives make up about a third of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents overall ( 31 % ) , they constitute a larger proportion of politically engaged Republicans ( 43 % ) .
Furthermore , Americans who believe gun laws should be less strict are more likely to contact public officials on the issue than those who think gun laws should be stricter or are about right ( 22 % have ever done so , compared with 15 % of those who favor stricter laws and 10 % of those who think laws are about right ) . Among gun owners , 19 % of those who want less strict laws have contacted a public official in the past year , compared with 9 % of those who want stricter laws .
Opinions on the impact of government assistance to the poor are even more partisan than views on the fairness of the economic system and hard work and achievement . Overall , the public is split with 44 % saying government aid to the poor `` does more harm than good by making people too dependent on government assistance , '' while about as many ( 49 % ) say it does `` more good than harm because people ca n't get out of poverty until their basic needs are met . '' Republicans , by 71 % to 24 % , say government aid to the poor does more harm than good .
Americans think automation will likely disrupt a number of professions – but relatively few think their own jobs are at risk . A majority of U.S. adults say it is at least somewhat likely that jobs such as fast food workers ( 77 % ) and insurance claims processors ( 65 % ) will be mostly performed by machines in their lifetime , while around half expect that the same will be true of jobs such as software engineers and legal clerks . On the other hand , only three-in-ten workers think it 's at least somewhat likely that their own jobs will be mostly done by robots or computers during their lifetimes .
Majority continues to say that Americans can solve problems . Despite the pandemic and the grim national mood , a majority of adults ( 57 % ) continue to say that , as Americans , we can always find ways to solve our problems and get what we want . This is essentially unchanged since September 2019 , when 55 % expressed optimism in the country 's ability to solve its problems .
Two-thirds of DACA recipients are ages 25 or younger , and a majority are women . Women make up a slight majority ( 53 % ) of active DACA recipients , while 47 % are men , according to the tabulations from U.S . Citizenship and Immigration Services .
Among eight international concerns tested , the topmost on the minds of Filipinos is the threat of the Islamic militant group known as ISIS , whose affiliates operate in the southern parts of the island nation . Seven-in-ten say ISIS poses a major threat to the country . Filipinos are also worried about global climate change ( 65 % major threat ) and cyberattacks from other countries ( 64 % ) .
A majority of Black Americans ( 57 % ) say they personally know someone who has been hospitalized or died as a result of having COVID-19 . Some 46 % of Hispanic adults say the same , compared with about a third of White ( 34 % ) and Asian adults ( 32 % ) . The share of Hispanic Americans who know someone who has been hospitalized or died due to COVID-19 has more than doubled since the spring survey , when 19 % said this .
Asked to report how often their personal religious beliefs conflict with science , a median of just one-in-ten say there is often conflict . A median of 31 % across the 20 publics surveyed say such conflict occurs at least sometimes . Majorities across most of these publics say there is rarely or never conflict between the two .
Today , 76 % of Republicans have a cold view of Democrats ( rating them 0 - 49 on the 0 - 100 scale ) , with about half ( 53 % ) rating Democrats very coldly ( 0 - 24 ) . Very cold ratings for Democrats among Republicans are higher today than in December 2016 ( 33 % ) , after the election , or in March of last year ( 46 % ) during the primary campaign .
Especially in the United States , political leaning plays a role in views of Russia . Roughly six-in-ten Democrats ( 61 % ) view Russia as a major risk to national security , whereas only 36 % of Republicans feel the same .
Democrats now hold a 12-point lead ( 52 % to 40 % ) in leaned party identification among those with at least a college degree , up from just a four point gap seen as recently as 2010 ( 48 % to 44 % ) . Much of this advantage has come among adults with post-graduate experience ; currently , 56 % lean Democratic while just 36 % lean Republican . Among those who have received a college degree but have no post-graduate experience , the gap is much narrower : 48 % identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , while 43 % affiliate with the GOP or lean Republican .
The majority of chiefs of staff to date – 19 – previously worked in other White House roles , such as deputy chief of staff or adviser to the president , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of their biographical information . This group also includes three former White House budget directors : Leon Panetta , who served as chief of staff to Bill Clinton ; Joshua Bolten , chief of staff to George W. Bush ; and Jack Lew , who served under Barack Obama . ( Lew had served as budget director twice – once under Clinton and once under Obama – before becoming Obama 's chief .
When asked about societal priorities around family , voters are somewhat less likely to say that society is better off if people make marriage and having children a priority than they were four years ago ( 36 % today , 42 % in 2016 ) . As was the case in 2016 , a slim majority of Trump 's voters this year say this ( 55 % today , 57 % in 2016 ) . But Biden voters are slightly more likely today to say that society is just as well off if people have priorities other than marriage and children than Clinton voters were in 2016 ( 77 % today , 69 % in 2016 ) .
Nearly nine-in-ten Americans ( 87 % ) who have seen a health care provider in the past year say their concerns or descriptions of symptoms were carefully listened to , and 84 % say they felt their provider `` really cared about ( their ) health and well-being , '' according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in spring 2016 . Just 23 % of patients said they `` felt rushed by their health care provider , '' and even fewer ( 15 % ) felt confused about instructions they got for treatment or at-home care .
Most teens report attending religious services with either both ( 40 % ) or one ( 25 % ) of their parents . Another 7 % say they generally attend with other people , such as grandparents , other family members or friends . Just 1 % say they attend worship services alone .
Overall , global publics tend to express positive views about China . A median of 47 % across the 38 nations polled have a favorable opinion of China , while 37 % have an unfavorable one . Global ratings for the U.S. , which have declined sharply in the first year of the Trump administration , look very similar : A median of 49 % see the U.S. in a positive light , while 39 % offer an unfavorable view .
While China 's global image is largely positive , the same is not true of its leader , President Xi Jinping . A global median of 53 % say they have little or no confidence in him to do the right thing in world affairs , compared with 28 % who do have confidence in Xi .
Overall , 43 % of U.S. adults say that law enforcement does not take incidents of online harassment seriously enough . Another 19 % feel that police do take harassment complaints seriously , and 32 % are unsure of how law enforcement handles this issue .
Many U.S. teens report having religious or spiritual experiences at least once or twice a month . Half feel a deep sense of spiritual peace and well-being at least monthly , while 46 % say they think about the meaning and purpose of life and 40 % report feeling a deep sense of wonder about the universe . The most common experience is a strong feeling of gratitude or thankfulness , reported by 77 % of teens in the survey .
In addition , nearly half of AAAS scientists – 47 % – use social media to talk about science or read about scientific developments at least some of the time . Some 24 % of these AAAS scientists blog about science and research .
To be sure , the NRA has been an active voice in debates over many of these policy proposals . And the public is divided when it comes to the amount of influence the NRA has over guns laws in the U.S. : While 44 % of all adults say the NRA has too much influence over gun legislation , 40 % say it has the right amount of influence . Relatively few ( 15 % ) say the NRA has too little influence .
While there is support for making it easy for citizens to vote , the public is largely opposed to making voting required in national elections . Only two-in-ten ( 20 % ) would favor mandatory voting , while nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) says citizens should be able to decide for themselves whether or not to vote in national elections .
Nearly two-thirds of Democrats ( 64 % ) say there would be fewer mass shootings in the U.S. if it were harder for people to legally obtain guns ; only about a quarter of Republicans ( 27 % ) say the same . And Republicans are skeptical that making it harder to legally obtain guns would have an effect on mass shootings : 54 % say it would not make a difference , while 18 % think restricting access to guns would lead to more mass shootings .
A new analysis of Pew Research Center survey data from fall 2016 finds that 53 % of Millennials ( those ages 18 to 35 at the time ) say they used a library or bookmobile in the previous 12 months . That compares with 45 % of Gen Xers , 43 % of Baby Boomers and 36 % of those in the Silent Generation . ( It is worth noting that the question wording specifically focused on use of public libraries , not on-campus academic libraries .
Many Russians see inherent conflict in their relationship with the West , but few rule out cooperation . According to a recently released Pew Research Center report based on 2015 survey data , overwhelming majorities in Russia believe that their country serves as an important counterbalance to the West ( 85 % ) and that Russian values clash with Western values ( 73 % ) .
In general , Republicans and Democrats ascribe positive traits to their own party , while holding negative views of the opposing party . For example , about two-thirds of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 66 % ) say their party has high ethical standards , while about the same share of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 64 % ) say the same about the GOP . Comparable shares in each party ( 24 % of Democrats , 21 % of Republicans ) say the opposing party has high ethical standards .
Donald Trump 's job approval continues to remain more negative than positive . Currently , 39 % of the public approves of the way Trump is handling his job as president , while 55 % disapprove . Ratings of Trump are virtually unchanged from April ( 39 % approved ) and February ( also 39 % ) .
Medians of nearly two-thirds say terrorism ( 66 % ) and cyberattacks ( 65 % ) pose major threats to their country , while roughly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) say the same about the spread of nuclear weapons . In nine countries , those on the ideological right are more likely than those on the left to say that terrorism is a major threat to their country .
YouTube is the second-largest social networking site , behind Facebook . A 2014 Pew Research Center study of online adults found that three-quarters ( 77 % ) of internet users are on Facebook , while 63 % use YouTube . Although YouTube has a smaller reach than Facebook , it is more widely used than LinkedIn ( 25 % ) , Google Plus ( 24 % ) and Twitter ( 21 % ) .
For their part , a solid majority of Americans say the U.S. should militarily defend a NATO ally if embroiled in an armed conflict with Russia . Asked about their own country 's obligation under the same scenario , more than half in the Netherlands ( 72 % ) , Poland ( 62 % ) , Canada ( 58 % ) and France ( 53 % ) support living up to their mutual defense commitment as a member of NATO . Just 40 % of Germans back such assistance .
About two-thirds ( 64 % ) of H-1B visa requests in fiscal 2011 were for occupations in the fields of science , technology , engineering and math ( STEM ) , according to the most recently available government data . Nine-in-ten H-1B visa requests ( 90 % ) are for jobs that require some high-level STEM knowledge . Most H-1B applications ( 75 % ) require high-level computer knowledge , and roughly half require significant engineering and math skills .
Democrats and Republicans also differ over so-called `` no excuse '' absentee or early voting , according to a separate survey conducted in June . Overall , 65 % of U.S. adults said voters should be allowed to vote early or absentee without a documented reason , but Democrats were nearly twice as likely as Republicans to hold this view ( 83 % vs. 44 % ) . Among the one-third of Americans who said early or absentee voting should be allowed only with a documented reason , Republicans were much more likely than Democrats to say COVID-19 should not be considered a valid reason .
This attitude manifests itself in differences between European and American Millennials ' views on what it takes to get ahead in life . For example , only about one-in-five French Millennials , one-in-four Greek Millennials and one-in-three Polish Millennials rate a good education as `` very important to getting ahead in life . '' By comparison , fully 58 % of Americans that age see education as strongly necessary for a successful future .
Public attitudes about the economy have turned bleak in much of the world as the coronavirus outbreak continues to affect daily life , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted this summer in 14 nations in Europe , North America and the Asia-Pacific region . Assessments of national economies have seen swift downturns in many countries , and few see improvements anytime soon amid what the International Monetary Fund calls a `` crisis like no other . '' Overall , a median of only 31 % of adults across the surveyed nations assess their country 's current economic situation as good , while 68 % say conditions are bad .
Most U.S. adults ( 63 % ) say a major reason for higher COVID-19 hospitalization rates among Black people is that they are more likely to live in densely populated areas . Smaller but still substantial shares point to Black people being more likely to have other health conditions that put them at risk ( 52 % ) , that they are less likely to have access to adequate health care ( 49 % ) and that they are more likely to work in industries that require contact with the public ( 45 % ) . Black Americans are particularly likely to see some of these explanations as major reasons why Black people have been hospitalized at higher rates than other racial or ethnic groups .
Americans overwhelmingly say that parents should be able to take leave from work following the birth or adoption of a child . And they say the same about workers who need to care for a family member with a serious health condition or to deal with their own serious health condition . But while most Americans support paid leave in each of these situations , about one-in-seven ( 15 % ) say men should n't be able to take paternity leave at all , paid or unpaid , according to a new Pew Research Center study .
To cover lost wages , many leave takers take on debt or use savings . About eight-in-ten leave takers ( 78 % ) who took unpaid or partially paid family or medical leave say they cut back on their spending to compensate for lost wages or salary . Substantial shares also say they used savings set aside for something else ( 50 % ) , used savings set aside for the reason they took leave ( 45 % ) , cut their leave short ( 41 % ) or took on debt ( 37 % ) .
The risk of divorce for adults ages 50 and older is also higher among those who have been married for a shorter time . For example , among adults 50 and older who had been married for less than 10 years , the divorce rate was 21 people per 1,000 married persons in 2015 . By contrast , the divorce rate is 13 people per 1,000 married persons for adults ages 50 and older who had been married for 20 to 29 years .
NASA continues to be very popular among the public , with four times as many Americans holding a favorable view of the space agency as unfavorable ( 68 % vs. 17 % ) . In contrast with many other departments and agencies of the federal government , Republicans and Democrats generally have the same positive view . Highly educated Americans have an especially positive view of NASA .
There also are differences in views of financial regulations by age and education . Among Americans younger than 30 , just 33 % say the government has gone too far in regulating financial institutions , while more ( 52 % ) say it has not gone far enough . Older Americans are more divided in their views .
Of the individual property crimes tracked by BJS , for example , theft is the least likely to be reported to police ( possibly because it is also the most common form of property crime ) . Only 29 % of thefts were reported in 2015 . By comparison , half of household burglaries ( 51 % ) and about seven-in-ten motor vehicle thefts ( 69 % ) were reported .
While Republicans are split over who would ultimately bear the cost of the wall , a wide majority thinks a border wall would lead to a reduction in illegal immigration into the U.S . Overall , 58 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say that a wall along the entire U.S.-Mexico border will lead to a major reduction in illegal immigration ; an additional 27 % say it would lead to a minor reduction . Just 13 % of Republicans think a border wall would not have much impact on illegal immigration .
Despite the prominence of immigration issues in last year 's presidential campaign , U.S. Hispanics do not rate them a top issue for the new administration or Congress , a pattern similar to that found in previous years of polling by Pew Research Center . According to the new survey , 46 % say dealing with the issue of immigration should be a top priority for the new administration and Congress in 2017 , ranking last among the five priorities tested in the new survey . Instead , Hispanics identify education as a top priority issue for the new Trump administration and for the new Congress among those tested .
The new survey finds that parents with children ages 4 or younger are more concerned than other Americans about the potential risk of side effects from the MMR vaccine . About half ( 52 % ) of parents with children ages 0 to 4 say the risk of side effects is low , while 43 % say it is medium or high . By contrast , seven-in-ten adults with no minor-age children ( 70 % ) rate the risk of side effects from the vaccine as low .
An overwhelming majority of Americans ( 82 % ) support having a school-based requirement that healthy children be vaccinated for measles , mumps and rubella . Older adults , ages 65 and older , are especially strong in their support for requiring the MMR vaccine . Seniors , ages 65 and older , support a school-based requirement for the MMR vaccine by a margin of 90 % to 8 % who say that parents should be able to decide this .
The survey asked respondents how important following the news was for being a good citizen , and those who say following the news is `` very important '' are more likely to correctly answer whether three or more of the six sources conduct their own news reporting . Over half of those who say following the news is very important ( 55 % ) correctly answered three or more of the original reporting questions , compared with 44 % of those who say following news is somewhat important and 32 % of those who say it is not too or not at all important .
While both scientists and the public tend to see U.S. scientific achievements as high among other industrial countries , both groups are markedly more critical of the quality of American science , technology , engineering and math ( STEM ) education in grades K-12 . Only 16 % of AAAS scientists and 29 % of the general public rank U.S . STEM education for grades K-12 as above average or the best in the world .
Republicans and Democrats differ substantially in views of how most of these groups will fare during Trump 's presidency . Sizable majorities of Democrats say a number of groups will lose influence with Trump in the White House : 81 % say the influence of the poor will decline ; 78 % say the same about Hispanics ; 74 % each say women and gays and lesbians will lose influence ; and 73 % say this about blacks . No more than about a third of Republicans say any of these groups will lose influence with Trump in the White House ( 33 % gays and lesbians , 32 % Hispanics ) .
Partisans also differ in the role they see police performing . For example , about a third of Democrats ( 31 % ) and independents ( 33 % ) say they see police in this country more as enforcers than protectors , roughly double the share of Republicans who say this ( 17 % ) . Republicans , for their part , are more likely to say police in this country fill both of these roles equally ( 67 % ) compared with Democrats ( 52 % ) and independents ( 53 % ) .
Despite differences in views about a range of biomedical and physical science topics , both the public and scientists give relatively high marks to the nation 's scientific achievements and give distinctly lower marks to K-12 education in science , technology , engineering and mathematics ( known as STEM ) . Just 16 % of AAAS scientists and 29 % of adults in the general public considers K-12 STEM education in the U.S. to be the best or above average compared with other industrialized countries . Both groups see U.S. scientific achievements and medical treatment in a more positive light , by comparison .
Prior to the election , Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton supporters had starkly different views about how life in America has changed over the past 50 years . About eight-in-ten Trump backers ( 81 % ) said life is worse than it was 50 years ago for people like them , compared with just 11 % who said it has gotten better . Most Clinton supporters took the opposite stance : About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) said life for people like them has gotten better over the past half-century , while 19 % said it has gotten worse .
Though the president 's favorability ratings have improved over the last year , Michelle Obama remains more popular than her husband : Nearly three-quarters of the public ( 72 % ) also have a very ( 46 % ) or mostly ( 25 % ) favorable opinion of the first lady , compared with 22 % who view her unfavorably . Views of Michelle Obama have changed only modestly over the course of eight years , though the share who see her favorably is up 11 points from last year .
Fully 83 % of AAAS scientists report that obtaining federal research funding is harder today than it was five years ago . More than four-in-ten say the same about industry funding ( 45 % ) and private foundation funding ( 45 % ) compared with five years ago . Further , when asked to consider each of seven potential issues as a `` serious problem for conducting high quality research today , '' fully 88 % of AAAS scientists say that a lack of funding for basic research is a serious problem , substantially more than any of the other issues considered .7
People 's views about scientists connected with GM foods : Americans with deep concern about the issue of GM foods hold mixed views about scientists connected with GM foods . Those deeply concerned about this issue say that scientists understand the health effects of GM foods very well ( 32 % ) . And , 35 % of this group says they trust scientists a lot to provide full and accurate information about the health effects of eating GM foods .
Despite mixed assessments of scientists working on genetic modification , six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 60 % ) say scientists should have a major role in policy issues related to GM foods and 28 % say they should have a minor role . Similar shares of Americans say that small farm owners and the general public should have a major role in GM food policy . A smaller share of Americans says that food industry leaders ( 42 % ) or elected officials ( 24 % ) should have a major role in policy decisions about GM foods .
Fourth , the survey finds that the broader public has decidedly mixed views about jobs in the emerging gig economy . On one hand , a majority of Americans feel that these jobs are good options for people who want a flexible work schedule ( 68 % ) or for older adults who do n't want to work full time any more ( 54 % ) . On the other hand , around one-in-five feel that these jobs place too much financial burden on workers ( 21 % ) and let companies take advantage of workers ( 23 % ) , while just 16 % feel that this type of work offers jobs that people can build careers out of .
The survey also found wide differences between Trump and Clinton voters over how best to address the nation 's problems . Nearly two-thirds of voters overall ( 65 % ) – including an overwhelming share of Clinton supporters ( 84 % ) – said the more effective way to solve problems is with proven approaches that solve problems gradually , even if change may take a while . But Trump voters were divided on the best approach to solving problems in this country .
Among Clinton supporters , about one-in-five ( 19 % ) said life is worse , compared with nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) who said it is better . Meanwhile , Trump supporters were considerably more likely than Clinton voters ( 68 % versus 30 % ) to say that the future of the next generation of Americans will be worse compared with life today .
About three-quarters of registered voters ( 76 % ) say Clinton has a great deal or fair amount of respect for women , while just half as many ( 38 % ) say this about Trump , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Oct. 20 - 25 . A majority of voters ( 60 % ) say Trump has little or no respect for women , including 36 % who say he has no respect at all for women . Roughly equal shares of women ( 62 % ) and men ( 58 % ) say Trump has little or no respect for women , but women are far more likely to say he has no respect at all : 43 % say this , compared with 29 % of men .
Other religious groups also have a higher percentage of college graduates than the full sample of more than 35,000 U.S. adults surveyed in the 2014 Religious Landscape Study , among whom 27 % completed university . They include Buddhists and members of the Presbyterian Church ( U.S.A. ) – both at 47 % – as well as Orthodox Christians ( 40 % ) , Muslims ( 39 % ) and Mormons ( 33 % ) .
The exercise of military force has been controversial in Japan since World War II . The Japanese Constitution outlaws war as a means for the state to settle international disputes . A majority ( 62 % ) of Japanese say Japan should limit its military role in the Asia-Pacific region .
The Indians ' favorable view of the U.S. is similar to the opinion of America voiced by the Germans ( 51 % ) and the Chinese ( 50 % ) and certainly more favorable than that held by the Russians ( 23 % ) and Pakistanis ( 14 % ) . But it trails the median view of the U.S. in the European Union ( 66 % ) and in other major emerging market economies : Brazil , South Africa and Indonesia . Moreover , nearly three-in-ten Indians voice no opinion about the United States — so the president has some salesmanship ahead .
Views on this question also vary by education . About half of college graduates ( 52 % ) say it 's better for children to have a parent staying home , compared with 59 % of those with some college experience and 64 % of those with a high school education or less .
Partisanship is a key factor in views about the issue . Fully 73 % of Democrats say they strongly or somewhat approve of social media companies labeling posts on their platforms from elected officials as inaccurate or misleading . On the other hand , 71 % of Republicans say they at least somewhat disapprove of this practice .
But more generally , Americans are somewhat skeptical about the value of a college degree in the job market : Only 16 % of all U.S. adults – including 13 % of those with at least a four-year college degree – say that a bachelor 's degree prepares students `` very well '' for a well-paying job in today 's economy , while an additional 51 % say it prepares students somewhat well . And 12 % say a two-year associate degree prepares students very well ( with 46 % saying it prepares them somewhat well ) . About a quarter of Americans ( 26 % ) say that certification programs in a professional , technical or vocational field prepares students very well ( 52 % say somewhat well ) .
A proposal by President Obama to offer free tuition for students attending community college could have a significant impact on Hispanics . More Hispanics are already enrolled in college than ever before and , among those who are , nearly half ( 46 % ) attend a public two-year school , the highest share of any race or ethnicity , according to U.S. Department of Education data .
Clear majorities of Democrats and independents who lean Democratic say that , regardless of religious objections , those providing wedding services should treat same-sex couples the same as other customers ( 67 % ) , and that transgender people should be able to use facilities for the gender with which they currently identify ( 68 % ) . In contrast , similar-sized majorities of Republicans and Republican leaners say that wedding-related business owners should be able to refuse service to same-sex couples on religious grounds ( 71 % ) , and that transgender people should be required to use the public restrooms of the gender they were assigned at birth ( 67 % ) .
Most Americans also have at least a fair amount of confidence in medical scientists and scientists to act in the best interest of the public . Some 84 % of U.S. adults express confidence in medical scientists ; 24 % say they have a great deal of confidence and six-in-ten ( 60 % ) have a fair amount of confidence in medical scientists to act in the public 's best interests . Three-quarters of Americans ( 76 % ) have either a great deal ( 21 % ) or a fair amount of confidence ( 55 % ) in scientists , generally , to act in the public interest .
A majority of Americans who are focused on living in ways that protect the environment say it bothers them `` a lot '' when they see other people leave lights and electronic devices on ( 62 % ) , or throw away things that could be recycled ( 61 % ) . And , sizeable minorities of environmentally conscious Americans are bothered a lot by people incorrectly putting trash in recycling bins ( 42 % ) or people driving places that are close enough to walk ( 34 % ) . The least irksome behavior is drinking from a disposable water bottle ; 23 % of environmentally conscious Americans say this bothers them a lot , compared with 12 % among those who are less focused on everyday environmentalism .
Observers expect Hungarians to deliver a resounding `` no '' to accepting EU-mandated refugee quotas in a referendum Sunday . Through the course of a highly controversial campaign , Orbán has been criticized for referring to refugees as `` poison '' and supporting campaign ads linking refugees to terrorism . Such controversy has exacerbated tensions within the EU on Hungary 's adherence to European values of pluralism and liberal democracy .
Overall , the public continues to express negative views of the news media . Fully 70 % say the news media have a negative effect on the way things are going in the country , while just 22 % say the media have a positive effect .
Fully 63 % of Americans approve of the Obama administration 's decision last month to re-establish diplomatic ties with Cuba after more than 50 years . And there is equally broad support for going further and ending the decades-long U.S. trade embargo against Cuba ( 66 % favor this ) . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 7 - 11 among 1,504 adults , finds strong support among Democrats and independents for the restoration of diplomatic ties with Cuba , and for ending the embargo .
As previous Pew Research Center surveys have found , voters have very negative feelings about the presidential campaign . Far more say they have been feeling frustrated ( 57 % ) , disgusted ( 55 % ) or scared ( 43 % ) than say they are interested ( 31 % ) , optimistic ( 15 % ) or excited ( just 10 % ) . Yet only 9 % of voters say they feel indifferent about the campaign .
Multiracial adults see themselves as more open to other cultures and more understanding of people of different backgrounds . Around six-in-ten multiracial Americans ( 59 % ) said their multiracial background has made them more open to cultures other than their own , and 55 % felt that they were more understanding of people of different racial backgrounds . Still , relatively few ( 19 % ) said they had felt like they were a go-between or `` bridge '' between different racial groups .
Republicans have widened their lead in leaned party identification among white evangelical Protestants : About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of white evangelicals lean Republican , while just 22 % lean Democratic . The GOP also holds a substantial advantage among Mormons . Fully 70 % of Mormons lean Republican , while just 22 % lean Democratic .
Public libraries , many Americans say , should offer programs to teach people digital skills ( 80 % think libraries should definitely do this ) and help patrons learn how to use new creative technologies like 3-D printers ( 50 % ) . At the same time , 57 % of Americans say libraries should definitely offer more comfortable places for reading , working and relaxing .
The public broadly supports proposals to help homeowners and renters and businesses address economic problems resulting from the coronavirus outbreak . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % each ) – including large majorities in both parties – support aid for these groups .
Similar to Catholics , white mainline Protestants are ambivalent toward these issues , but they are more open to potential human enhancements in some ways . For instance , a majority ( 56 % ) of white mainline Protestants say gene editing for babies would be no different than other ways humans try to better themselves . Fewer ( 42 % ) say they are crossing a line and meddling with nature .
Democrats feel warmly toward Clinton , while Republican views of her are very cold . Hillary Clinton is a polarizing figure in U.S. politics . In a survey conducted this spring , Democrats give her an average rating of 73 on a 0-to-100 `` feeling thermometer , '' where 100 is the warmest , most positive rating and zero the coldest , most negative .
But while churchgoing Republicans were particularly skeptical of Trump during the primaries , they are firmly in his corner now that the general election campaign is underway . Indeed , in a June 2016 telephone survey , churchgoing GOP voters were as supportive of Trump in the general election as Republicans who attend religious services less than once a week . Nearly nine-in-ten GOP registered voters who attend religious services weekly say they would vote for Trump over Clinton if the election were held today , including 40 % who say they would `` strongly '' support Trump in the general election .
When asked about various topics of campaign coverage , two areas stand out for being over-covered : About four-in-ten say there is too much coverage of candidates ' comments on the campaign trail ( 44 % ) and of their personal lives ( 43 % ) , higher than any other topics asked about . This is followed by coverage of which candidate is leading in the polls ( 37 % ) and the candidates ' moral character ( 30 % ) . Very few say the candidates ' experience ( 15 % ) or their stances on issues ( 13 % ) have received too much attention .
Overall , 52 % of adults say they `` feel more comfortable using familiar brands and products , '' and 39 % describe themselves as preferring to wait until they hear about others ' experiences before trying something new themselves . Similarly , 39 % say they prefer their `` tried and trusted '' brands . But 35 % of Americans say they like the variety of trying new products , and three-in-ten like being able to tell others about their experiences with new technology .
An estimated 679,000 Hispanics of Peruvian origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Peruvians in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Peruvian origin ; this includes immigrants from Peru and those who trace their family ancestry to Peru . Peruvians are the 11th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for about 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 .
The institution 's strongest backers are the Poles ( 72 % ) and the Hungarians ( 61 % ) . In many other nations , support is tepid . Just 27 % of the Greeks , 38 % of the French and 47 % of the Spanish have a favorable opinion of the EU .
About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they were following news about the terrorist shootings in Paris very closely , according to a separate survey conducted Jan. 8 - 11 among 1,000 adults . That compares with 24 % who were very closely following news about the U.S. economy , 19 % who tracked the AirAsia flight that crashed Dec. 29 , and 17 % who paid close attention to news about the incoming Republican leaders in Congress . While younger Americans typically pay less attention to news events than older Americans , the gap on the terrorist shootings in Paris is particularly large : 43 % of those ages 65 and older followed this news very closely , while just 15 % of those ages 18 - 29 say they did the same .
Regardless of people 's intention to get vaccinated , 62 % of Americans report they would be uncomfortable being among the first to do so . Roughly two-thirds of those who say they would `` probably '' be vaccinated are uncomfortable being among the first as are nearly all of those who say they would not be vaccinated if a vaccine were available today . The exception comes from the roughly three-in-ten U.S. adults ( 29 % ) who say they would definitely be vaccinated ; 82 % of this group say they would be comfortable being in the first groups to be immunized against coronavirus .
The public 's wariness toward global engagement extends to U.S. participation in the global economy . Nearly half of Americans ( 49 % ) say U.S. involvement in the global economy is a bad thing because it lowers wages and costs jobs ; fewer ( 44 % ) see this as a good thing because it provides the U.S. with new markets and opportunities for growth . Trump 's primary campaign supporters stand out for their negative assessments of U.S. involvement in the global economy .
Women are more likely than men to say that masks should always be worn in public places ( 53 % vs. 42 % ) . White people are substantially less likely than black and Hispanic adults to say that masks should always be worn . Age is also strongly related to views about mask wearing .
With a higher U.S.-born share comes a larger share who are proficient in English . About three-quarters of Hispanic Millennials are proficient English speakers – that is , they either speak only English at home ( 28 % ) or speak a language other than English at home , but speak English `` very well '' ( 48 % ) . Some 19 % of Hispanic Millennials speak English less than very well and just 5 % do not speak English at all .
There is greater tolerance in the U.S. than in Europe for offensive speech . A solid majority ( 77 % ) of Americans believe citizens should be allowed to make statements that are offensive to people 's religious beliefs , a significantly higher share of the public than in any of the European Union nations included in our 2015 survey . In Poland , Germany and Italy , fewer than half think this kind of speech should be legal .
But , judging by the results of our recently released survey on religion in everyday life , religion does indeed seem to be a subject many people avoid . About half of U.S. adults tell us they seldom ( 33 % ) or never ( 16 % ) talk about religion with people outside their family . And roughly four-in-ten say they seldom ( 26 % ) or never ( 13 % ) discuss religion even with members of their immediate family .
Around a third ( 36 % ) of legislators in the four countries who tweeted about Floyd 's killing and racism commented on the protests spreading across the U.S. About 30 % discussed Trump and his handling of the protests – with seven times as many posts critical , as opposed to supportive . In the UK , 32 % of British legislators who tweeted about Floyd or `` Black lives matter '' lobbied for banning tear gas , rubber bullets and riot gear sales from the UK to the U.S .
Good neighbors can be a blessing , whether they 're people you can trust to water the plants or watch the kids . But building that trust can be hard : Just half of Americans ( 52 % ) say they trust all or most of their neighbors , while a similar share ( 48 % ) say they trust some or none of their neighbors , according to a 2015 Pew Research Center survey .
Online career and job-related resources : Some 62 % of local libraries offer such resources , according to IPAC , and 41 % of adults in our survey say they know their local libraries have such material . Still , 38 % say they do not know if such resources are offered by their local libraries and another 21 % say their libraries do not offer career- and job-related resources .
Another aspect of campaigns that is frowned upon by voters is the use of personal insults by candidates . In a race that has been punctuated by harsh personal attacks , 68 % of voters say that `` personally insulting political opponents is never fair game . '' Just 30 % say personal attacks are sometimes fair game .
In the June 4 - 10 survey , a majority of voters said it is very ( 28 % ) or somewhat important ( 30 % ) to them personally to get messages from the presidential campaigns about important issues . About four-in-ten said it is not too important ( 25 % ) or not at all important ( 17 % ) .
About two-thirds of Black ( 65 % ) and Hispanic voters ( 65 % ) said it is at least somewhat important to them to hear from the Trump and Biden campaigns . Among white voters , 55 % said this . Differences also emerge by age .
Seven-in-ten U.S. Mormons identify with the Republican Party or say they lean toward the GOP , compared with 19 % who identify as or lean Democratic – a difference of 51 percentage points . That 's the biggest gap in favor of the GOP out of 30 religious groups we analyzed , which include Protestant denominations , other religious groups and three categories of people who are religiously unaffiliated . At the other end of the spectrum , an overwhelming majority of members of the AME Church ( 92 % ) identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party , while just 4 % say they favor the Republican Party ( an 88-point gap ) .
In the high-stakes battle over replacing Justice Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court , a majority of Americans ( 56 % ) say the Senate should hold hearings and vote on President Obama 's choice to fill the vacancy . About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say the Senate should not hold hearings until the next president selects a court nominee .
By this measure , Americans place less importance on religion in their lives than do people in a number of countries in Africa , the Middle East and Asia . For example , nearly universal shares of Ethiopians ( 98 % ) , Senegalese ( 97 % ) and Indonesians ( 95 % ) say religion is very important , as do eight-in-ten or more Nigerians ( 88 % ) , Filipinos ( 87 % ) and Indians ( 80 % ) .
Among Democrats , concerns about catching and spreading the virus are relatively unchanged since April . About six-in-ten Democrats ( 64 % ) continue to say they are very or somewhat concerned that they will require hospitalization due to the virus , while about three-quarters ( 77 % ) are very or somewhat concerned about unknowingly spreading it . Today , clear majorities of black ( 63 % ) and Hispanic ( 73 % ) adults say they are very or somewhat concerned about getting COVID-19 and requiring hospitalization , which is little different than the shares saying this in April .
Despite these religious differences , Millennials celebrate many of the cultural parts of Christmas at roughly equal rates to older Americans – and sometimes at even higher rates . For instance , about nine-in-ten Millennials ( 91 % ) said they planned to buy gifts for friends or family during the 2013 holiday season , higher than the share of members of the Silent generation ( 79 % ) and Baby Boomers ( 86 % ) who said the same . And Millennials are at least as likely as their elders to say they planned to attend a gathering with extended family or friends , put up a Christmas tree or go caroling .
A majority of parents also report that their phone can get in the way of spending quality time with their children . Roughly seven-in-ten parents ( 68 % ) say they are at least sometimes distracted by their smartphone , with 17 % saying this happens often .
Wide partisan divides exist over whether the U.S. should send ground troops . Two-thirds of Republicans ( 66 % ) – including 72 % of conservative Republicans – say they would favor sending U.S. ground troops to Iraq and Syria , while just 28 % are opposed . Among Democrats , views are the reverse : 64 % oppose sending ground troops to Iraq and Syria , 33 % are in favor .
The public is divided over the best approach to confronting global terrorism . Overall , 45 % say `` using overwhelming military force is the best way to defeat terrorism around the world , '' while about as many ( 46 % ) say `` relying too much on military force to defeat terrorism creates hatred that leads to more terrorism . '' There are wide partisan differences on the question of force and global terrorism .
Overall , 55 % say that problems in the world would be even worse without U.S. involvement , compared with fewer ( 38 % ) who say U.S. efforts to solve problems around the world usually end up making things worse . Views on this question are unchanged from March of last year , the first time it was asked by the Pew Research Center .
The public is closely split on some other major debates surrounding the content of games and their impact on users . For instance , a quarter of all adults ( 26 % ) think most video games are a waste of time , while 24 % think most games are not a waste of time . One-third think some games are a waste of time while others are not .
Yet when asked about specific policies to address the energy supply , a majority of Americans continue to support allowing more offshore oil and gas drilling in U.S. waters ( 56 % ) and more mining and drilling on federally-owned land ( 58 % ) . These opinions are largely unchanged from recent years .
The public gives the `` typical American '' a mixed assessment when asked about specific traits . Most ( 79 % ) agree that the term `` patriotic '' describes the typical American very or fairly well , and majorities also view the typical American as `` honest '' ( 69 % ) and `` intelligent '' ( 67 % ) .
An estimated 2.1 million Hispanics of Dominican origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Dominicans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Dominican origin ; this includes immigrants from Dominican Republic and those who trace their family ancestry to Dominican Republic . Dominicans are the fifth-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 4 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 .
A new Pew Research Center analysis finds that 66 % of Americans own at least two digital devices – smartphone , desktop or laptop computer , or tablet – and 36 % own all three . The age group most likely to own multiple devices is 30- to 49-year-olds , half of whom report owning all three , according to our 2015 survey data .
We asked whether people believe that citizens should be able to make public statements that are offensive to minority groups , or whether the government should be able to prevent people from saying these things . Four-in-ten Millennials say the government should be able to prevent people publicly making statements that are offensive to minority groups , while 58 % said such speech is OK .
Among Europeans , there is a wide range of opinion on whether the government can prevent statements that are offensive to minorities . Seven-in-ten Germans say this should be the case ( where there are clear laws against hate speech ) , as do 62 % of Italians and half of Poles . The French are divided , with 48 % saying that the government should have the ability to prevent speech that is offensive to minority groups , while 51 % say people should be able to say these things publicly .
Overall , 47 % of smartphone job seekers say their phone is `` very important '' in helping them look for job and career resources , and an additional 37 % describe it as `` somewhat important . '' But despite the overall significance of smartphones to these users , many of them have encountered challenges navigating the job search process on a mobile device . Nearly half of smartphone job seekers have had problems accessing job-related content because it was n't displaying properly on their phone or had difficulty reading the text in a job posting because it was not designed for a mobile device .
Among caregivers of older adults , most provide help to one aging adult , but 22 % provide help to two and 7 % provide help to three or more . Roughly half of these caregivers have been providing help for two years or less . More than a third have been providing care for five or more years .
Although many observers have documented a global decline in democratic rights in recent years , people around the world nonetheless embrace fundamental democratic values , including free expression . A new Pew Research Center survey finds that majorities in nearly all 38 nations polled say it is at least somewhat important to live in a country with free speech , a free press and freedom on the internet . And across the 38 countries , global medians of 50 % or more consider these freedoms very important .
With the holiday shopping season underway , about twice as many are hearing good news about retail sales ( 28 % ) as bad news ( 13 % ) ; about half ( 48 % ) are hearing mixed news . This sentiment is roughly in line with opinions measured in December of each of the previous two years . Despite the Dow Jones Industrial Average trading near record highs , attitudes are mixed when it comes to recent news about the stock market .
Globally , a median of just 40 % think media organizations should be able to publish information about sensitive issues related to national security , while 52 % believe it is acceptable for the government to suppress such information . But opinions vary widely across countries and regions . Latin Americans and Europeans tend to think the press should be allowed to publish sensitive national security information , while Middle Easterners , Asians and Africans mostly oppose this idea .
While it 's hard to say whose account is the most accurate when it comes to how parenting and household responsibilities are shared , an analysis of the American Time Use Survey ( ATUS ) data provides a glimpse into how full-time working moms and dads spend their time . This analysis shows that while full-time working moms spend more time than full-time working dads on parenting and household tasks , the difference is modest . For example , mothers who work full time spend an average of 11.9 hours per week , or 1.7 hours per day , on housework , compared with 1.2 hours per day among fathers who work full time .
When asked about seven potential international threats , Canadians are clearly most concerned about the Islamic militant group in Iraq and Syria known as ISIS . Roughly six-in-ten Canadians ( 58 % ) say they are very concerned about ISIS . Canadians are also very worried about global climate change ( 45 % ) and Iran 's nuclear program ( 43 % ) .
Texting is by far the most frequent way teens interact with their romantic partner . Nearly three-quarters ( 72 % ) of teen daters say they spend time texting with their partner daily . Among teens who have had relationships , talking on the phone ( 39 % ) ranks second for everyday interactions , followed by instant messaging ( 29 % ) , being together in person ( 21 % ) , social media ( 21 % ) and messaging apps ( 20 % ) .
The public has mixed reactions to the U.S. response to the influx of hundreds of thousands of migrants arriving in Europe in recent weeks . By a narrow 51 % -45 % margin , more approve than disapprove of the U.S. decision to increase the number of refugees it accepts to help deal with this situation .
In his home country of Argentina , 91 % have a favorable opinion of Francis , including 65 % with a very favorable view . Majorities in every other Latin American country also see the pope in a positive light , including seven-in-ten or more in Colombia ( 83 % ) , Mexico ( 74 % ) , Brazil ( 74 % ) and Peru ( 72 % ) . Eight-in-ten or more also express support for the pope in Poland ( 92 % ) , Italy ( 91 % ) , France ( 88 % ) , Spain ( 84 % ) and Germany ( 82 % ) .
5 Candidate Donald Trump has drawn attention to the issue of illegal immigration with his proposals to force Mexico to build a wall along the southern border and force deportations of those living in the U.S. illegally . But even before he made immigration an issue , about six-in-ten ( 59 % ) Republicans said in May that their party was not doing a good job representing their views on illegal immigration . This includes about two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Republicans who opposed legal status for undocumented immigrants .
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites . Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 61 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ) . People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party .
These trends are going to put a lot of pressure on Japan 's working-age population down the line . By 2050 , there will be 72 elderly people ( ages 65 and older ) for every 100 people of working age , doubling the 2010 ratio of 36 per 100 . Indeed , Japan 's old-age dependency ratio is among the highest in the world .
A Kaiser Health Tracking Poll conducted in October found that 65 % of Republicans would rather see their representative work to repeal and replace it compared with 33 % who favored keeping the law and working to improve it . By contrast , 86 % of Democrats want to see their representative work to improve the law while just 12 % favor scrapping it .
Pew Research surveys have consistently shown strong public support for building the pipeline from Canada to the U.S. Gulf Coast , with 61 % of Americans favoring it . Fully 84 % of Republicans want to see the pipeline built , but Democrats are more divided , with 49 % in favor and 38 % opposed .
Crime and corruption , common scourges of modern societies , top the list of problems cited by publics in emerging and developing nations . A median of 83 % of people across 34 emerging and developing economies say crime is a very big problem in their country , and 76 % say the same about corrupt political leaders . Many also worry about issues such as health care , poor quality schools , water and air pollution , and food safety .
Nationally , 52 % of voters backed Republican candidates for Congress , while 47 % voted for Democrats , according to exit polls by the National Election Pool , as reported by The New York Times . The overall vote share is similar to the GOP 's margin in the 2010 elections , and many of the key demographic divides seen in that election — particularly wide gender and age gaps — remain .
An estimated 2.3 million Hispanics of Cuban origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Cubans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Cuban origin ; this includes immigrants from Cuba and those who trace their family ancestry to Cuba . Cubans are the third-largest population ( tied with Salvadorans ) of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 4 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 .
Since we began polling the Turkish people in 2002 , shortly after the 9/11 attacks , never have more than three-in-ten said they have a favorable view of the U.S . But anti-Americanism really spiked in the aftermath of the 2003 Iraq War , when 83 % of Turks held a negative view of America . Today , only 19 % in Turkey like the U.S. , while nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) share a dislike of their NATO ally .
Support for Obama is driving the vote of fewer Democrats today than in 2010 . In the current survey , 38 % of voters who plan to support the Democratic candidate in their district say they consider their vote as `` for '' Obama . Four years ago , far more Democratic voters ( 53 % ) said this .
Perhaps unsurprisingly , many young adults have not given much thought to end-of-life decisions . Just a quarter of adults under 30 say they 've given a great deal of thought to their own wishes for medical treatments at the end of life , while roughly four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say they 've given such matters not much thought or none at all .
About six-in-ten Republicans and those who lean toward the Republican Party ( 62 % ) say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases . By contrast , 82 % of Democrats and those who lean toward the Democratic Party say abortion should be legal in all or most cases .
The survey found that between 2006 and 2012 , the share of congregations allowing an openly gay or lesbian couple to become full-fledged members grew from 37 % to 48 % . In addition , the number of congregations that allowed openly gay and lesbian members to assume any lay leadership position also increased – from 18 % in 2006 to 26 % in 2012 .
However , 29 % of LGBT adults also said they had been made to feel unwelcome in a church or other place of worship . Many also rated specific religious groups as unfriendly toward the LGBT community , including eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) who said the Catholic Church is unfriendly toward LGBT people .
Overall , Millennials ( currently ages 18 - 33 ) are the most liberal age group . In our report on Political Polarization in the American Public , we used a scale based on 10 political values questions about the role of government , the environment , homosexuality and other issues to measure ideological consistency . This survey of more than 10,000 Americans finds that , on this scale , Millennials are considerably more liberal than other generations : About four-in-ten Millennials are mostly ( 28 % ) or consistently ( 13 % ) liberal in their views , compared with 15 % who are mostly ( 12 % ) or consistently ( 3 % ) conservative ( 44 % are ideologically mixed ) .
Men and women have similar value priorities for children for all but a handful of qualities . To the extent that there are differences , women are more inclined to prioritize helping others and empathy as important . A clear majority of women and men say that teaching children about helping others is important ( 89 % and 80 % , respectively for women and men ) but women are relatively more inclined to say this .
Trade and foreign investment engender both faith and skepticism around the world , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of 44 nations . Global publics , particularly in emerging and developing economies , agree that international commercial activity is a good thing . But not everyone is convinced , especially in advanced economies .
Among Hispanics , more immigrants ( 94 % ) than the U.S. born ( 82 % ) support allowing undocumented immigrants to stay in the U.S. legally . Majorities of black ( 81 % ) , Asian ( 76 % ) and white adults ( 70 % ) also express support .
Recent survey data from the Pew Research Center suggest that there is a sharp divide between younger and older blacks on the issue of police searches . Older blacks ( those ages 60 and older ) are evenly split when it comes to what tactics the police should use in pursuing crime suspects . Some 46 % say the police should be allowed to stop and search anyone who fits the general description of a crime suspect , while roughly the same share ( 50 % ) say the police should not be able to search people just because they think they look suspicious .
About six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say food safety is a very big problem , and 54 % say the same about health care . Roughly four-in-ten or fewer are troubled by people leaving for jobs in other countries ( 38 % ) , traffic ( 33 % ) and electricity shortages ( 31 % ) .
Libertarianism is associated with limited government involvement in the social sphere . In this regard , self-described libertarians are somewhat more supportive of legalizing marijuana than the public overall ( 65 % vs. 54 % ) . But there are only slight differences between libertarians and the public in views of the acceptability of homosexuality .
Part of these cross-country differences may stem from differences in which group people were asked about , given that past Pew Research Center analysis has shown that people tend to express much more support for taking in refugees fleeing violence and war than for immigrants moving to their country . Still , even across the three countries asked specifically about refugees – Jordan , Kenya and Lebanon – opinion differed substantially . For example , 76 % of Jordanians had a favorable view of refugees living in their country , compared with 58 % of Kenyans and 27 % of Lebanese .
Mexico has recently experienced increased immigration from Central America , and the Mexican government apprehended nearly 92,000 migrants in the first seven months of fiscal 2019 . Against this backdrop , around half ( 48 % ) of Mexicans gave unfavorable ratings to Central Americans fleeing to Mexico . Younger people had more favorable views of Central American migrants in Mexico than those 50 and older .
The number of black journalists working at U.S. daily newspapers has dropped 40 % since 1997 , according to the latest data from the American Society of News Editors . That represents a loss of almost 1,200 journalists — from 2,946 in 1997 to 1,754 in 2013 . It 's also a steeper decline than the rate of job losses for white journalists — a 34 % decrease during the same time period .
A majority of Republicans ( 60 % ) say Hamas is most responsible for the current violence . Democrats are divided : 29 % say Hamas is more responsible , 26 % Israel , while 18 % volunteer that both sides are responsible .
Still , the U.S. has a relatively strong reputation for respecting personal freedoms compared with the other major nations tested on the survey . A median of 58 % believe the American government respects individual liberties , while 56 % say this about France , 36 % about China , and only 28 % say it about the Russian government .1
Yet a Pew Research Center survey , conducted Jan. 23-Feb. 9 , shows that most Americans favor a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants , though there are partisan and ideological differences over the issue . Nationwide , 76 % say people currently in the country illegally should be eligible for citizenship if they meet certain requirements , and just 23 % disagree . Among Republicans , that majority slips to 66 % vs. 32 % .
Politically , people also tend to see a trade-off between the two superpowers . About half of adults in Taiwan ( 49 % ) would support closer political ties to the U.S. but would not say the same of mainland China . Adults who prefer political ties to the U.S. over ties to the mainland are more likely to be ages 18 to 29 , support the currently ruling DPP or identify solely as Taiwanese .
Americans generally agree that immigrants – whether undocumented or living legally in the country – mostly do not work in jobs that U.S. citizens want , with a majority saying so across racial and ethnic groups and among both political parties . This is particularly true when it comes to undocumented immigrants . About three-quarters of adults ( 77 % ) say undocumented immigrants mostly fill jobs U.S. citizens do not want , while 21 % say undocumented immigrants fill jobs U.S. citizens would like to have , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 29 to May 5 .
About 750,000 unauthorized immigrants held jobs in industries that produce and distribute food – food production ( 290,000 ) , food processing ( 210,000 ) , food retail ( 170,000 ) and food distribution ( 70,000 ) . During the COVID-19 outbreak , these industries , considered part of the nation 's food supply chain , are considered essential jobs . Unauthorized immigrants in these four industry groups accounted for more than 9 % of workers in these food sectors in 2017 , nearly double their share among all U.S. workers .
The sharpest falloff during that period came among moderate and liberal Republicans . Just 27 % of moderates and liberals expressed a favorable view , down 19 points from the previous June . The Tea Party 's ratings declined even among conservatives , from 74 % favorable in June of that year to 65 % in October .
As the Obama administration announces new economic measures against Russian officials and companies , the public supports increased U.S. economic and diplomatic sanctions by a 53 % to 36 % margin . But by roughly two-to-one ( 62 % to 30 % ) , Americans oppose sending arms and military supplies to the Ukrainian government .
Overall , nearly nine-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 87 % ) and about seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 71 % ) said they had a fair amount or great deal of confidence in police officers to act in the best interests of the public . But there were wide divisions between black and white Democrats in their confidence in police officers . While 78 % of white Democrats said they had at least a fair amount of confidence in officers to act in the public 's best interests , just 54 % of black Democrats said the same .
But black adults were much more likely than whites and somewhat more likely than Hispanic adults to frequently discuss the COVID-19 outbreak with other people . Roughly a quarter ( 26 % ) of black adults said they discuss it almost all the time , more than twice the 10 % of white adults who said the same , and more than the 19 % of Hispanic adults who said the same .
Of the four potential developments we measured , public attitudes towards ubiquitous wearable or implanted computing devices are the most positive , or more accurately , the least negative . Although 53 % of Americans think it would be a bad thing if `` most people wear implants or other devices that constantly show them information about the world around them , '' just over one third ( 37 % ) think this would be a change for the better .
Among the eight issues included in the survey , people seemed most comfortable with the practice of using contraceptives . Only a median of 14 % across the 40 countries said that using contraceptives ( we did not specify exactly what kind of contraceptive ) was morally wrong , while 54 % said they personally believed it was acceptable . A further 21 % said it was not a moral issue .
Both black and Hispanic respondents were more likely than whites to say they feel they need to stay tuned in to news about the coronavirus outbreak . Roughly four-in-ten black adults said this ( 39 % ) , as did 36 % of Hispanics . Around a quarter of white adults ( 23 % ) said the same .
By more than two-to-one , Germans ( 55 % to 25 % ) and Americans ( 53 % to 20 % ) say TTIP will be good for their countries . There is no partisan divide in support for TTIP between adherents of the major German political parties , but more Democrats ( 60 % ) than Republicans ( 44 % ) in the United States back the deal .
The U.S. is the leading defense spender among member states , committing an estimated 3.87 % of GDP to defense expenditures in 2020 . Nine other countries – including several in Central and Eastern Europe – also meet NATO 's 2 % threshold . Just one country – Luxembourg – spends less than 1 % of GDP on defense .
The percentage of Americans who have listened to a podcast has also substantially increased over the last decade . As of 2019 , 51 % of Americans ages 12 or older have ever listened to a podcast , according to Edison Research and Triton Digital survey data , and 32 % have listened to a podcast in the past month , up from 26 % in 2018 and just 9 % in 2008 . Furthermore , 22 % of those 12 and older said they have listened to a podcast in the last week , up from 7 % when this was first measured in 2013 .
There is widespread opposition to internet censorship in emerging and developing nations . Majorities in 22 of 24 countries surveyed say it is important that people have access to the internet without government censorship . In 12 nations , at least seven-in-ten hold this view .
A majority of officers said in 2016 that relations between the police in their department and black people in the community they serve were `` excellent '' ( 8 % ) or `` good '' ( 47 % ) . However , far higher shares saw excellent or good community relations with whites ( 91 % ) , Asians ( 88 % ) and Hispanics ( 70 % ) . About a quarter of police officers ( 26 % ) said relations between police and black people in their community were `` only fair , '' while nearly one-in-five ( 18 % ) said they were `` poor '' – with black officers far more likely than others to say so .
Almost half ( 47 % ) of the public said military spending should be kept about the same , according to a survey conducted Oct. 30-Nov. 6 , 2013 . An additional 23 % said it should be increased while 28 % favored reductions . The findings reflect roughly the same sentiment found in a survey conducted a year ago .
The Obama administration has had its share of ups and downs during the last five years when it comes to how the public sees it , but there 's been at least one constant on the positive side — the large number of Americans who have a favorable view of First Lady Michelle Obama . Because Michelle Obama 's unfavorable rating among conservative Republicans stood out , we looked back at other first ladies to see how they fared among the public , as well as those at the far end of the opposition party . To be sure , comparing first ladies and how the public views them is a tricky exercise because there is no `` job description '' for the position and each one has shaped her role in different ways and in different political environments .
The national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 9 - 12 among 1,006 adults , finds that just 18 % paid very close attention to Christie 's apology on Jan. 9 for the highway lane closures ordered by his aides . By contrast , 44 % very closely followed news about the cold winter weather that gripped much of the U.S. and 28 % tracked news about the economy . The release of a book by former Defense Secretary Robert Gates that criticized the Obama administration drew even less interest than news about Christie .
Half of Americans say they think China will have less influence in world affairs after the coronavirus outbreak than it did before – more than twice as many as expect its influence to grow ( 17 % ) following the crisis ( 31 % expect no real change ) . In comparison , a plurality of Americans expect their own country 's influence to remain largely unchanged ( 41 % ) , while roughly three-in-ten each say U.S. influence will increase ( 29 % ) or decrease ( 29 % ) .
Even as publics in many of the surveyed countries express a clear preference for women to dress conservatively , many also say women should be able to decide for themselves what to wear . This attitude is most prevalent in Tunisia ( 56 % ) , Turkey ( 52 % ) and Lebanon ( 49 % ) – all countries where substantial percentages are open to women not covering their heads in public . But nearly as many in Saudi Arabia ( 47 % ) also say a women should be free to choose how she dresses .
Although few Americans have been diagnosed with COVID-19 themselves , many more say they know someone with a positive diagnosis . More than one-in-four U.S. adults ( 28 % ) say they personally know someone who has been diagnosed by a health care provider as having COVID-19 . A smaller share of Americans ( 20 % ) say they know someone who has been hospitalized or who has died as a result of having the coronavirus .
Our Christmas survey also asked what people look forward to the most about Christmas . A majority ( 69 % ) say they look forward to spending time with family and friends . A smaller number say they look forward to the religious elements of the holiday ( 11 % ) .
Starting as early as 2010 , more Asian immigrants than Hispanic immigrants have arrived annually in the U.S. , a reversal of historical trends . In the early 2000s , the number of newly arrived Hispanic immigrants greatly outnumbered newly arrived Asian immigrants . Around the time of the Great Recession , Latin American immigration declined sharply , especially from Mexico .
According to a September 2011 Pew Research survey , 95 % of Americans born in 1955 or earlier said they could recall exactly where they were or what they were doing when Kennedy was killed . That compares with 81 % of adults asked in 2011 who remember those details when Osama bin Laden was killed in 2011 , and 72 % when Martin Luther King , Jr. was killed in 1968 , according to the same survey . The only other event that weighed on American consciousness to such an extent was the 9/11 terrorist attacks ( 97 % ) .
Half the general public supports allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , up 15 points from 35 % in 2001 . But just 29 % of Republicans do . Although support among Republicans has been growing , up 8 points from 21 % in 2001 , it 's risen more slowly than in the general public .
But it is also important to bear in mind that the percentage of Jewish adults who are the offspring of intermarriages appears to be rising . Just 6 % of Jews from the Silent Generation say they had one Jewish parent , compared with 18 % of Jewish Baby Boomers , 24 % of Generation X and nearly half ( 48 % ) of Jewish Millennials . The result is that there are far more Jews of no religion among younger generations of Jews than among previous generations , as shown in the survey report .
But Republicans and Republican leaners who agree with the Tea Party like some federal agencies as much as Democrats do . In fact , two-thirds or more viewed four federal agencies or departments favorably – the Department of Defense ( 75 % favorable ) , the Centers for Disease Control ( 72 % ) , NASA ( 70 % ) , and the Department of Veterans Affairs ( 67 % ) – we asked about it under its former name , the Veterans Administration . For all four , there were virtually no differences in the opinions of Republicans and Republican leaners who agree with the Tea Party , those who do not and Democrats and Democratic leaners .
By comparison , assessments are less positive among Cubans and Puerto Ricans . Among Cubans , 38 % say the impact of unauthorized immigration is positive , but 28 % say the impact is negative and 27 % say there is no impact one way or the other . Among Puerto Ricans , roughly equal shares say the impact of unauthorized immigration on U.S. Hispanics is positive ( 34 % ) , negative ( 29 % ) or has no effect ( 29 % ) .
Americans with higher levels of educational attainment are more likely to say the U.S. has a responsibility to provide medical aid to undocumented immigrants who are ill with the coronavirus . About three-quarters of adults with a postgraduate degree ( 79 % ) or a bachelor 's degree ( 73 % ) say this , compared with about two-thirds among those with some college experience and those with a high school diploma or less ( each 64 % ) .
Americans ' and Germans ' views of the relationship between their two countries remain sharply divergent . Americans continue to be rosy in their views of their country 's relationship with Germany , with nearly three-quarters saying that relations are good . Nearly two-in-ten Americans say that the relationship is very good ( 19 % ) , the largest share in four years of polling and up 6 percentage points from 2019 .
Last week 's report on unemployment underscored the catastrophic impact the coronavirus outbreak has had on the U.S. economy . The focus in many states has now turned to reopening businesses and getting people back to work . However , most Americans – including 68 % of those who have lost their jobs or taken a cut in pay due to the coronavirus outbreak – are concerned that state governments will lift restrictions too quickly , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
While public opinion about labor unions may have improved , the news about membership has not . The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported earlier this year that overall union membership in 2012 declined to 11.3 % of the workforce , from 11.8 % in 2011 to 11.3 % . The falloff in union membership has been continuous since 1983 , the first year for which the BLS says there is comparable data .
Among Republicans and leaners under 40 , 68 % say nominating more racial and ethnic minorities would help and 64 % say the same about more women nominees . Far fewer Republicans 40 and older view these steps as helpful : 49 % say nominating more racial and ethnic minorities would help and 46 % say the same of nominating more women .
There are some modest demographic differences in how often Americans talk about the outbreak . Women are more likely than men ( 47 % vs. 41 % ) to say they talk about it most or almost all of the time , as are black adults ( 52 % ) when compared with Hispanic ( 46 % ) and white adults ( 42 % ) . Older people appear to be at higher risk from the virus , but they are less likely than younger Americans to talk about it frequently : Among those ages 65 and older , 38 % say they talk about it most or almost all of the time , lower than the shares in all other age groups .
The laws seem to align with Russia 's rejection of homosexuality . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of Russians said homosexuality should not be accepted by society , while just 16 % said it should be accepted , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Globally , homosexuality was most accepted in Spain ( 88 % ) , Germany ( 87 % ) , the Czech Republic ( 80 % ) and Canada ( 80 % ) .
And who 's responsible for the difficulties of the middle class ? While Congress gets the most votes , with 62 % assigning it `` a lot '' of the blame , the Pew Research report found plenty of blame to go around . The one exception : Middle-class people themselves , with just 8 % assigning their own socioeconomic group `` a lot '' of blame , and 47 % saying they were n't to blame at all .
Among those who identify solely as Taiwanese , there is little enthusiasm about the mainland . Favorable views of the U.S. among this group are three times higher than toward mainland China ( 75 % vs. 23 % ) . But , among those who identify as both Chinese and Taiwanese , majorities have favorable views of both the U.S. and mainland China .
While just 23 % of those who feel mostly Taiwanese have favorable views of mainland China , a majority ( 57 % ) of those who consider themselves both Chinese and Taiwanese feel this way . Those under age 50 hold less favorable views of mainland China , as do men and those with lower levels of education . Opinions differ by age , national identification and political party when it comes to closer relations with mainland China .
Likewise , most adults in Taiwan would welcome closer political ties with the United States . Nearly eight-in-ten overall support more Taipei-Washington political interactions , and at least seven-in-ten or more in each of the groups analyzed say they would favor more bilateral political relations . The highest level of enthusiasm for this comes from those who support the DPP ( 91 % ) , those who identify solely as Taiwanese ( 84 % ) and those ages 18 to 29 ( 82 % ) .
