More than three-quarters of Hispanic ( 63 % ) and white ( 76 % ) adults said they feel the need to stay tuned in to COVID-19 news. Black adults were far more likely than white adults to say this ( 39 % vs. 23 % ).
Male teachers are also more likely than female teachers to have second jobs in the coming year. Male teachers are about twice as likely as their female counterparts to have not only one ( 18 % ) but two ( 25 % ) full-time jobs, compared with 18 % of their male counterparts.
For its part, the media devoted the most coverage to the plight of six miners trapped in a Utah mine dominated public interest. Though coverage of the miners fell off significantly from the previous week, 18 % of the public paid very close attention to the story and roughly the same proportion ( 28 % ) say this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other. In other news this week, interest in the miners remained relatively low, according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center's Project for Excellence in Journalism.
Americans want their country to play a more active military role in the world. Nearly seven-in-ten Americans ( 69 % ) want to see the U.S. more involved in the war in Iraq and Syria ; only 25 % want it to play as a less important role. Germans, on the other hand, would like to see their country's military role a little less ( 25 % ).
Candida's comments and personal lives are generally seen as more over-covered than in the past. About four-in-ten Americans ( 44 % ) say the election is getting too much coverage, while 15 % say it is getting the right amount of coverage. About half ( 55 % ) of Americans say there is too little coverage of the election, compared with 37 % who say the same about the candidates'personal lives.
Two-thirds of Latino registered voters say they are `` fearful '' about the state of the country, according to a new Pew Research Center survey of Latino voters conducted July 27-Aug. 2. The share saying they are fearful has rises from 68 % among those who have a college degree or less to 73 % among voters who have not completed college.
The American public supported the civil rights Act of 1964, when Gov. Al Smith signed it into law. The new national survey by the Pew Research Center, conducted May 16 - 22 among 1,501 adults, finds that 58 % approve of the act, while 31 % disapprove.
When asked about eight potential threats to their country, climate change is the top threat, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 29 to May 5. The Islamic militant group known as ISIS has also been among the public's top threats for several years.
Around the world, there is little confidence in Donald Trump to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs. Across the 37 countries surveyed, a median of just 15 % have confidence in the U.S. president. While people in most countries express relatively low levels of confidence in Trump, they are roughly twice as likely as those in the West to express confidence in him ( 29 % vs. 29 % ).
The number of people living in India has grown at a rapid rate over the past decade or so : The country with the largest population of people, China, India and the U.S., has added nearly 1 million people to its population since 2010, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data. The Chinese population grew from 1.4 million in 2010 to 2.2 million in 2017, a 1 % increase. This is largely due to population growth as the population of India has surged.
One candidate tested is Pakistan's Lashkar-e-Taiba extremist group, which loosely translates as `` extremist '' or `` fanatical '', according to a recent Pew Research Center survey. Most Pakistanis ( 83 % ) are aware of the extremist group ; roughly one-in-five ( 16 % ) do not know whether the group is affiliated with any extremist group.
Democrats and Republicans have different views on responsibility for ensuring high-speed internet service at home. A sizable majority of Democrats ( 78 % ) say the government should be responsible for ensuring home broadband services such as smartphones and computers, including 78 % who say this should be the responsibility of the government. A smaller majority of Republicans ( 54 % ) prefer the government to play a role in ensuring that all Americans have broadband at home, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in September.
The patterns in support for Trump also have not changed much. More men ( 49 % ) than women ( 47 % ) approve of Trump's job performance, though majorities of both men and women disapprove.
Latinos living in the U.S. are more likely than immigrants to see the impact of immigration on the country as a positive thing for the country. However, only about a third ( 34 % ) say that immigration has a negative effect on the Latino population and that it has a neither positive nor negative effect.
The U.S. public places great importance on international cooperation, especially on the spread of infectious diseases. About eight-in-ten or more Americans ( 80 % ) say that cooperation with other countries is very important to deal with international issues, including terrorism, the use of nuclear weapons and cyberattacks.
Early and absentee voting has become a partisan issue in the United States. This partisan divide is also found in the attitudes of two-thirds of Americans : Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 65 % ) are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners ( 55 % ) to support so-called no excuse '' early or absentee voting.
About half of Republicans ( 52 % ) and Republican leaners ( 46 % ) say they feel excited about Trump winning the presidential election, while 29 % are not too excited or not at all confident. By contrast, about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) of Democrats and Democratic leaners had positive reactions to Trump's victory.
The spread of nuclear weapons is a top threat for eight nations polled in the spring of 2017. A median of 71 % say terrorism is a major threat in the eight countries surveyed, while a median of 61 % say the same about cyberattacks and the spread of Nuclear weapons. Majorities in each of the 14 countries surveyed say cyberattacks are major threats.
10 Three-in-ten Americans turn to 2016 presidential candidates'digital messages for news and information about the election – and the candidates'social media posts outpace their websites and emails as sources of this news. Roughly a quarter of U.S. adults ( 24 % ) turn to social media communications from either the Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump campaigns as a way of keeping up with the election ; this is a higher share than say they turn to the Donald Trump campaign's emails or websites ( 10 % ) or campaign websites ( 9 % ). While all age groups rely more on campaign digital communications than their emails or
People who do not pay a church tax are much less likely than those who do pay church taxes to identify as Christian and attend religious services. For example, just 15 % of church tax-goers in Austria, Finland, Switz and Germany say they are Christian, compared with 55 % of those who pay no church tax in the U.S. ( 29 % vs. 23 % ), and even fewer ( 2 % ) of church taxes in Italy, Spain, France and Germany.
Western countries tend to associate negative traits with Muslims. Majorities in the U.S. ( 63 % ), Britain ( 59 % ) and Germany ( 53 % ) see Muslims as violent. Many also associate selfishness with Muslims, although in both countries no more than half do so.
By contrast, the share of Republicans who view Obama favorably has remained roughly the same : 22 % now have a positive view of Obama, while 22 % are negative. The gender gap in views of Obama is modest ; about two-in-ten men ( 22 % ) and women ( 21 % ) say Obama is a good influence on the way things are going in the country.
The December holidays are also a time to reflect on the holidays : Nearly seven-in-ten adults ( 69 % ) say they look forward to spending more time with family or friends, while just 29 % say they're looking forward to the holidays. Looking ahead, however, just over half ( 53 % ) of adults say they feel like they've had a lot of time with friends and family, compared with 59 % who say they have had a mostly good time.
Parents should be able to decide not to have their children vaccinated even if that creates health risks for others. A majority of parents ( 90 % ) say this, compared with 42 % of those ages 18 to 29. The share of adults who say that the MMR vaccine should be required for healthy children is about the same as it was for healthy adults, at least seven-in-ten of those under 30 ( 82 % ) and 65 and older ( 77 % ). There are no significant differences in views about this issue by age.
About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Republicans and Republican leaners say they are very ( 42 % ) or somewhat ( 47 % ) confident that the November election will be `` open and accurate, '' according to a survey conducted in October. The survey finds little difference in these views between Republicans and Democrats. About half of Republicans ( 52 % ) are very confident that November elections will be open and reliable, while nearly as many ( 54 % ) say the same about Democrats.
As the president gets underway, the public expresses little confidence in Donald Trump, Republican congressional leaders and the president-elect. Just 22 % of Americans say they are very or somewhat confident in Trump to do the right thing regarding world affairs ; 35 % are somewhat confident and 34 % are not too confident or not at all confident. The confidence in Democratic leaders in Congress has declined over the past decade – from 42 % in 2010 to 31 % today.
Sub-Saharan Africa has experienced dramatic gains in internet use in recent years. With this rapid growth in connectivity have come a host of potential problems, including fake news, political targeting and manipulation and financial scams, among others. Yet according to a new Pew Research Center analysis, most sub-Saharan Africans who use social media say they mostly post about entertainment, not religion or politics.
How do parents spend their time? Some 47 % of parents say they are `` very happy '' with their life, while 40 % say they're `` somewhat happy. '' Just 11 % give a positive rating to the parent saying they are doing a good job.
The number of adults who describe themselves as Orthodox Christians has risen sharply since the fall of the Soviet Union, according to a new Pew Research Center survey of people in Eastern Europe and Central and Eastern America. This is a sharp increase from the 37 % who self-identified as Orthodox in 1991 and a sharp rise from 39 % in 1991 to 58 % today. Eastern Europeans are also more likely than Western Europeans to identify with Orthodox Christianity and are more likely to say they are Christian than they were in 1991 ( see chart below ).
Europeans tend to see immigrants in their countries as a burden on their economy, rather than a good thing. In Italy, France and Germany, roughly seven-in-ten or more say immigrants are a burden to their country. In Spain and Italy, as well as Poland, a median of 62 % and 54 % of adults, respectively, see immigrants as a very important economic burden.
About six-in-ten adults ( 57 % ) say the country can always find ways to solve our problems to help solve them, while a somewhat larger share ( 48 % ) says it's `` not too '' or `` not at all '' easy. Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are divided : 48 % say there's always a way to solve problems, while 57 % say the problem is always too easy. These views are little changed since 2018.
With Election Day fast approaching, Muslim Americans are more likely than other Americans to express satisfaction with the way things are going in the U.S. economy, a Pew Research Center survey conducted in early 2007 found. About eight-in-ten ( 83 % ) Muslim adults approved of the job Obama was doing as president in 2007, and 76 % said the same about his job performance. Bush's ratings for handling the nation's economy took a particular turn in favor of the economy : in January 2007, 56 % said Bush was doing a good job in handling the economy ; just 15 % said he had done a bad
Overall, about half of Americans ( 53 % ) say there is too much attention paid to race and racial issues in the U.S., while 44 % say the same about policies and programs related to blacks and Hispanics. By comparison, just 21 % of whites and 17 % of Hispanics say the news media is paid too little attention to these issues. Attention to racial and ethnic issues across demographic groups is higher among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents than it is among Republicans and Republican leaners. However, Democrats ( 80 % ) are more likely than Republicans ( 54 % ) to say the media and programs are paying too
Voice calling is still the most prevalent among adults in their age groups, even though support for voice calling has risen across the age groups over time. The share of adults ages 65 and older who are active on the internet and/or mobile device has increased by 15 percentage points over the past two decades – from 15 % in 2013 to 25 % today.
Around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 77 % ) said in a June 2019 survey that the government was tracking at least most of their online and cellphone activity, including 47 % who said they felt very strongly about this. Black and Hispanic adults were more likely than white adults to believe the government tracked all of this activity, as were whites and Hispanics.
Those with lower family incomes and less education are more likely to say the MMR vaccine benefits are high. About nine-in-ten of those with postgraduates ( 93 % ) and a college degree ( 87 % ) say the health risks of the vaccine are medium or high. By comparison, just 59 % of those who have completed some college say the same, and just 10 % say the risk is medium or low.
Iran is not well known among the publics in many European countries. A median of 62 % across the European countries surveyed have a negative view of Iran, compared with a median of 39 % who see it favorably. Majorities in Poland, Britain, France, Spain, the Czech Republic and Germany see Iran as a serious threat to their country.
In addition, Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are far more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say the Democratic Party does not care about the middle class ( 83 % vs. 42 % ). Similarly, a third of Democrats ( 33 % ) say the Republican Party doesn't care about middle class, compared with a smaller share ( 24 % ) who say the Democrats do.
U.S. deportations of immigrants in 2018 were slightly higher than in 2017, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Department of Homeland Security's Refugee Processing Center. Up to that point, about 438,000 immigrants were deported in fiscal year 2018, about a sixth the number in 2017 ( 473,000 ). A slightly smaller share of immigrants ( 52 % ) were deported under the Trump administration, but a larger share were still in the black category ( 28 % ) than in the other categories of immigration.
Ride-hailing users in majority-minority areas ( 46 % and 46 %, respectively ) see service as useful where taxis won't visit the neighborhoods they visit. Just 11 % of ride hailing users living in neighborhoods who say ride the services serve neighborhoods that won't be visitable by taxis, are less likely than those who live in predominately white areas ( 9 % vs. 46 % ) to see it as useful.
The number of naturalization applications from October to June, in the first three quarters of each fiscal year, has grown by 113,000 from the previous year, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data. The vast majority of these applications were made during the first quarter of fiscal 2017, which ended October 30.
Voice assistants are just not interested in using them, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2018. Some 61 % of U.S. adults say they aren't interested in owning any devices with voice assistants, while 28 % say they just don't want to because they would be too complicated to use. A similar share ( 28 % ) say they would rather have some other devices that allow them to interact with their devices.
Roughly a quarter of American Jewish adults ( 24 % ) were born in the U.S. The share of American Jews living with just one parent has increased from 6 % in 1965 to 24 % in recent generations, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data. The increase in Jewish adultship has been especially steep among Baby Boomers. Fully one-in-four Israeli adults in the Baby Boomer generation have just one Jewish parent ; 24 % are in this category.
Overall, 68 % of parents say they at least sometimes feel distracted by their phone when spending time with their kids. A similar share ( 68 % ) say this happens often. Parents ages 18 to 29 are also more likely than those ages 50 and older to say they've felt distracted by the phone all or most of the time ( 47 % vs. 46 % ). This feeling is especially true of those with a high school diploma or less.
For example, about two-thirds ( 64 % ) of cellphone owners say they have used their phone to send a message such as a text or email, compared with 35 % of those ages 18 to 29. Similarly, text messaging is a fairly common practice among young adults : About nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) say they sent a message or video when a social gathering is going on ; just over half of those under 30 ( 35 % ) do so. There are no statistically significant differences between the two groups when it comes to whether younger adults use their phones to send or receive an incoming call.
The survey found that roughly three-quarters or more officers say that the security of their local communities is good, with 70 % saying it is very good. About the same share of officers ( 72 % ) say that relations with the racial and ethnic groups in their communities are somewhat bad, with 47 % saying relations are good.
Age is the most correlated age predictor for all social activities. The median age at which women are most likely to be at work is 0.35, the most powerful age, and the lowest of any occupation. By contrast, the highest predictors for education, income, and race are at least 1 percentage points ahead.
Demographic differences in the views of federal government support for medical, economic help to undocumented immigrants affected by the coronavirus are also evident. About seven-in-ten Democrats ( 68 % ) say the federal government should provide medical help, while about a third ( 34 % ) of Republicans say the same. However, Republican views are more divided : 37 % say the U.S. government should do so, while 64 % say it should not.
Around the world, publics are divided about the direction of American power : Across the 25 nations surveyed, a median of 31 % say the U.S. plays a more important role in the world today than it did ten years ago ; 25 % say it plays as a less important role ; and 35 % believe China is as important as it was a decade ago. In contrast, views about Chinese power are clear : A median of 70 % say China's role on the world stage has grown over the past 10 years. Still, by a slim margin, more people name the United States as the world's leading
18 '' Bots '' on Twitter may be behind more link sharing than human beings. An estimated two-thirds of tweeted links to popular news and media websites ( 66 % ) are posted by automated accounts, while around a third ( 34 % ) is posted by human accounts, based on a sample of tweets from 2017. A relatively small number of highly active bots appear to be responsible for many of those links.
When it comes to the issues at the forefront of Latinos'minds, the economy tops the list, with 83 % of Latinos – and similar shares across the political spectrum – saying this is very important to their vote. Health care ranks in the top tier of issues included in the survey, just below the economy ( 83 % ) and terrorism ( 80 % ).
Roughly four-in-ten adults ( 38 % ) say older adults will be less financially prepared for retirement in the future because of the amount of money they and their families spend on their retirement, according to a new Pew Research Center survey. The share saying that this will definitely not happen has increased from 47 % in 2016 to 50 % today. And about six-in ten older adults ( 59 % ) – those ages 65 and older – say the same. The downturn is shared widely among younger adults. About half ( 50 % ) of those ages 60 and older say they expect their retirement to definitely or probably not
When asked whether their country's relationship with the U.S. or China is good or bad, Germans say relations are very bad. Roughly half of Germans ( 52 % ) say relations with America are bad, while only 15 % say they are good. American relations with China are also relatively bad : 70 % of Americans say the past decade has been a bad thing for their country, with only 19 % saying it has been good.
Enshrined in the Bill of Rights, free expression is a bedrock American principle, and Americans tend to express stronger support for free expression than many others around the world. A Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2015 found that Americans were among the most supportive of free speech, freedom of the press and the right to use the internet without interference from the government.
Trump and Biden supporters also express deep concerns about several other aspects of the presidential election. For instance, only about a third of registered voters who are ineligible to vote say they are very confident that In-person polling places will be run safely ( 33 % ), without spreading the coronavirus ( 24 % ) and that Trump will be able to cast a ballot after all the votes are counted.
Even so, the ideological orientation of European lawmakers has shifted. In 2014, 30 % of people on the political left had a favorable opinion of the European Parliament, compared with just 12 % who had an unfavorable view of the right-wing European Parliament ( a figure that has changed little since 1979 ).
The new survey also finds that non-broadband users are not particularly interested in subscribing to home broadband services in the future. Just 15 % of adults who use the internet at home say they would like to subscribe to some type of broadband service at home, while eight-in-ten say that they would not want to, and the same is true for people who do not use broadband at home. The rest are evenly split, with 8 % wanting to subscribe and 49 % not wanting to.
As confirmed cases of the coronavirus top 20 million globally, many in the countries surveyed say that count could have been minimized through stronger international cooperation. A 14-country median of 59 % say that if their country had cooperated more with other countries, the outbreak would have been less effective, while a median of 36 % say it would have had less of an impact.
Overall, two-thirds of Americans say that the way things have been going in politics pits people against one another, with 44 % saying their side loses more than it wins. Women are more likely than men to say their side has been winning ( 44 % vs. 25 % ).
Those who live in the EU are divided over the impact of immigrants on their countries, particularly along ideological lines. A median of 50 % across the EU say that immigrants make their countries stronger, while a median of 32 % say immigrants do not make the countries weaker.
About two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) are aware that in the future, genetically modified foods may be fed to their own devices or implants, as well as robotic caregivers for the elderly and infirm. Around three-quarters ( 77 % ) of Americans say they would be more likely to see U.S. drone systems like these as safe to use when dealing with potential children. Views on this question are more mixed among adults with at least one parent who can alter the DNA of a candidate ( 53 % vs. 37 % ).
Mobile technology has spread rapidly around the globe. Today, it is estimated that more than 5 billion people have mobile devices, and over half of these connections are smartphones. But the growth in mobile technology to date has not been equal, either across nations or within them. People in 11 countries are especially concerned about the impact of mobile technology on children. More than half of adults in every country surveyed say they limit how much time their child spends on their phone, and a median of 54 % say the same about the internet. But only in emerging economies do more adults believe that the increasing use of mobile phones has a negative effect on
For example, a 63 % majority of U.S. adults say a major reason why Black people have been hospitalized at higher rates than other racial or ethnic groups has to do with circumstances beyond people's control. By comparison, about six-in-ten white adults ( 62 % ) say the same, but that share falls to 51 % among Hispanic adults.
In the Center's June survey, majorities of both liberal Democrats ( 73 % ) and conservative Republicans ( 65 % ) say social media is at least somewhat important for creating sustained movements that get the eye of politicians. Liberal Democrats are more likely than conservative Republicans – who make up about two-thirds of all Democrats and Democratic leaners – to see social media as very important for this type of movement.
In a survey conducted in fall 2018, about three-quarters of U.S. Hispanics ( 73 % ) said they consider themselves to be Afro-Latino, while 24 % identify themselves as Cuban, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted July 13 - 19. The new survey also finds that a growing share of Hispanics in the U.P. Hispanic population is unaware of their family's origins. About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) identify as Hispanic, a share that has doubled over the past decade.
Similarly, those who place the greatest importance on following news about the news are more likely than those who do not to identify the news as important ( 55 % vs. 32 % ). The same pattern was found for people who prioritize the news media's recommendations and recommendations.
New debit-card fees and the threat of terrorism in the U.S. are getting a lot of attention from the public. Almost three-quarters ( 76 % ) say they have heard a lot about these new fees, while just 8 % say they heard a little about them. A year ago, just over two-in-ten ( 19 % ) knew someone who had heard about these fees.
Nearly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) of Indians have a positive view of the U.S., as do majorities in Pakistan, Lebanon, Spain, Germany and Russia. By contrast, a median of 42 % of the public views the American government favorably.
Hispanic adults ( 75 % ) are more likely than whites ( 70 % ) to say undocumented immigrants should be allowed to stay in the U.S. legally. About seven-in-ten black adults ( 42 % ) and a quarter of Hispanic adults ( 24 % ) say the same.
While the media's top story last week was the Iraq policy debate, the public remained intensely focused on the situation in Iraq. Fully 24 % of Americans followed news about Iraq very closely and another 36 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week. By comparison, 14 % followed the 2008 presidential campaign very closely, and 12 % listed Iraq as their top news story of the week. News coverage of Iraq focused primarily on events on the ground, while the policy debate took a back seat. In previous weeks, the situation has received more media coverage than the conflict-related violence in Iraq
Among registered Republican voters, Trump supporters are more likely to see U.S. global economic ties as bad ( 55 % vs. 46 % ). GOP supporters of Ted Cruz ( 65 % good thing vs. 37 % bad thing ) are more evenly divided, while just 10 % say ties are good for the country.
The vast majority of applications requiring high levels of education do not include a bachelor's degree or higher. In fact, about one-quarter ( 26 % ) of applications that require high education levels, just 4 % do not require a bachelor�s degree.
Two-thirds of Americans favor sending U.S. ground troops to Iraq and Syria to fight Islamic militants in the country. About two-thirds ( 64 % ) favor the move, while 28 % oppose it. Republicans and independents who lean Republican are about evenly divided ( 47 % favor vs. 47 % oppose ).
The share of U.S. congregations that are racially and ethnically diverse has steadily declined over the past 20 years, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data. Currently, just 5 % of congregations where people are racial or ethnic minorities speak English at least occasionally, down from 15 % in 1998. Over this period, the share who are white or who are Muslim has increased slightly, rising from 5 % in1998 to 22 % today.
Nearly six-in-ten emigrants from Latin America and the Caribbean live in the U.S., according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data. The majority of emigrants live in Europe ( 59 % ), the United States or the Caribbean ( 62 % ).
People in both parties have very cold feelings toward North Korea. A 46 % majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners have a very cold opinion of the nuclear program. Far fewer Republicans and Republican leaners ( 46 % ) have a warm view of North Korea, with just 17 % saying they have very warm feelings.
Along with communicating extensively via untethered mobile devices, Facebook and Twitter users also get news from other sites. Around six-in-ten Facebook users ( 61 % ) get news on the site, as do roughly half ( 48 % ) of Instagram users. The share of Facebook users who get news via these six sites is much larger than the share of Snapchat users ( 46 % ) who get these news from YouTube.
Overall, about three-quarters of Americans ( 76 % ) think it is at least somewhat unacceptable for someone to look through their significant other's phone without their knowledge. But this share is especially widespread among adults in younger age groups.
Hispanics make up 15 % of the nation's youngest racial or ethnic group, and they account for the majority of the country's 4.5 million unemployed adults. By comparison, the U.S. population is comprised of about 4.6 million Hispanics ( ages 18 to 33 ) and about 8 million Asian adults ( about 6 million ).
China's economy generates much less concern in the region than does its military. Still, half of Indians ( 50 % ) consider China's growing military power a bad thing for their country, up significantly from 36 % in 2005. Similar majorities in both China and India hold this view.
Public trust in medical scientists to give full and accurate information about the risks and benefits of the childhood vaccine for measles, mumps and trubella is higher among several groups of health groups than it is among the public overall ( 55 % vs. 35 % ). About one-in-five adults ( 21 % ) say they trust medical scientists `` a great deal '' or `` some '' for this group, while 8 % say they aren't too or not at all trusted. The other groups are herbal dietary supplements industry leaders ( 20 % ), people from different health groups ( 10 % ) and elected officials ( 6
Differences in marital status also emerge by age. Gray divorce is more common among those who have been married multiple times or for fewer years. For example, 16 % of persons ages 50 and older who have recently divorced have a spouse who had been married at least once before, compared with just 9 % of those who had a first marriage at the same age. By comparison, among marriage-age adults who have lived at least a year in their current marriage, the likelihood of getting a divorce is higher by one-in-five ( 20 % ).
Average audience for network TV news magazines, based on circulation, declined 4 % in 2018, to about 3.4 million from 3.3 million.
When it comes to how important religion is part of their national identity, a majority of adults ( 59 % ) say religion is very important to how they feel about their nation. By comparison, fewer than half ( 46 % ) of those who had a official or preferred religion say religion plays a very important role in how they think about themselves.
A recent Pew Research Center survey on LGBT Americans found that roughly four-in-ten LGBT adults ( 39 % ) said they would like to get married someday, if they could. That's a slightly higher percentage than for other LGBT groups, such as lesbians ( 56 % ) and bisexuals ( 60 % ), but similar to the share of gay men who want to marry.
Some 54 % of Hispanic and 18- to 29-year-olds say they have paid home broadband services in the past year, compared with 28 % of those who have not done so far. And about half ( 54 % ) of Black and Hispanic users say they are also at least somewhat worried about paying utility bills. On the other hand, lower-income users – who express relatively low levels of concern – are about twice as likely as those with higher incomes to express concern. Roughly half of middle-income adults ( 52 % ) and a similar share of those with at least a bachelor's degree ( 35 %
For its part, the media devoted the most attention to news about North Korea ( 69 % ) and China ( 70 % ). About half ( 52 % ) say they very or somewhat closely followed news about the U.S., Japan and Vietnam. Among other regions of the world, only east Asians ( 9 % ) show more interest in news about events in Sudan, while nearly as many ( 12 % ) describe it as `` very closely. ''
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in early 2018 found six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 62 % ) say they are very or somewhat bothered by the feeling that some corporations and wealthy people do not pay their fair share of taxes, and 62 % say the same about some wealthy people. Fewer – 37 % – say the complexity of the tax system does not bother them.
The economic crisis attracted little attention or coverage last week ; 3 % say they followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely, while 12 % followed news about the candidates for the 2012 presidential election very closely. Akin's comments about the 2012 election made up 3 % of coverage.
Americans and Germans diverge on who is the world's leading economic power. Roughly half of Americans ( 49 % ) name the U.S. as the world economic leader, while nearly the same share of Germans ( 48 % ) say the same. Among Germans, the country naming China is the most common choice for the top economic power : Only 7 % of Germans say this, while 14 % of Americans name China.
Teens'love for text messaging is a key part of their daily routine. Fully 72 % of teens with relationship experience spend time with a significant other in the following ways : talking on the phone ( 87 % ), using email, texting ( 70 % ) and video games ( 69 % ).
9 How do Facebook news users discover news? The vast majority of Facebook users get news from the site itself. About half ( 50 % ) say they get news daily from Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Six-in-ten Facebook users also get news via Instagram, Pinterest, LinkedIn and other platforms.
About eight-in-ten adults ( 79 % ) say it is at least somewhat likely that Republicans in Congress will be fair in handling the Senate trial, according to a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted in January. The share is much higher among Democrats ( 81 % ) than Republicans ( 67 % ).
Tunisians are divided on the issue of women's clothing choice, with a median of 56 % saying it is up to a woman to dress the way she wants, and a nearly identical share ( 52 % ) saying it's up to men to decide. Only in the Palestinian territories does a majority endorse a woman's choice of clothing for the first time, while most Tunisians ( 56 % ) and Lebanese Shia Muslims ( 54 % ) support a more limited choice. These opinions are in line with previous Pew Research Center surveys on gender and leadership in the Middle East.
Those who took the quiz on our website were considerably more knowledgeable than those who responded to our national survey or national survey. Nearly three-quarters ( 74 % ) of quiz takers on the website say they analyzed the news IQ questions correctly, compared with 42 % of those who did not take the quiz. And while most people have high school education or less, the gap between the two groups is small when it comes to foreign-born students and those younger than 30. Nearly half of foreign-educated college graduates ( 52 % ) take the News IQ quiz – compared with 28 % of Americans ages 30 to 49 and just 3
Around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 72 % ) say it is at least somewhat acceptable for companies to share human DNA data to solve crimes, while 28 % find this unacceptable, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in October. The survey also finds a sizable gender gap in views of this practice : 53 % of men find it unacceptable, compared with 42 % of women and 15 % of Hispanics. Men are also more likely than women to find it acceptable ( 45 % vs. 28 % ) for companies companies to sharing DNA data from customers with other companies. The vast majority of women ( 84 % )
In our exit poll, majorities of men ( 55 % ) and women ( 41 % ) supported the candidate, while men were divided ( 47 % Republican, 41 % Democrat ). The balance of opinion among men was slightly shifted among women, with 41 % of men backing the candidate compared with 47 % of women.
Most Muslims in the region say religious leaders should have at least a large influence on the way things are going in their country ( median of 36 % ). Only 6 % of Muslims in Lebanon and 4 % in Turkey say this should be the case.
Republican views are little changed over the past year. More Republicans ( 50 % ) than Democrats ( 41 % ) have a favorable opinion of the GOP. But the share of Republicans who express a favorable view of the party has dropped from 55 % in April to 43 % today.
In 30 of the 44 countries surveyed, majorities or pluralities say there are more opportunities for men in getting high-paying jobs in the U.S. ( 79 % ), Lithuania ( 70 % ) and Poland ( 68 % ) than for women ( 56 % ). Opinions are also relatively divided in Israel, Brazil, Argentina and Mexico.
Public trust in the federal government and each other is a problem that gets in the way of solving issues. Just two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) say they have `` a lot of trust in '' the federalgovernment to do what is right to solve problems, while 68 % say the same about each other. In addition, 64 % of Americans say their level of confidence in the government is shrinking. Just 70 % of each group say this about the government.
4 Growth in mobile and social media use has sparked debates about the impact of screen time on America's youth – and others. More than half of teens ( 54 % ) believe they spend too much time on their cellphones, while 41 % say the same about video games and online games. At the same time, about six-in-ten teens ( 57 % ) say they spend the right amount of time on social media and 41 % blame screen time for their lack of interest. There are also differences between teens who are younger and those who aren't engaged with social media. For example, 41 % of teens
About three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Republicans who are a part of the Tea Party movement say that immigrants living in the United States illegally should be eligible for citizenship if they meet certain requirements. Just 17 % of non-Tea Party Republicans say the same. Support for a pathway to citizenship for unauthorized immigrants has increased among members of the GOP over the past two years.
But perhaps just as striking is that racial identity has also changed substantially. In Pew's 2016 survey, about seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 70 % ) said they had previously thought of themselves as two or more races, while 29 % now see themselves as three or more times as a couple without any race or ethnicity. This sense of identity hasn't changed much, just that parts of the population have become more diverse over time.
There are partisan differences in these views. While 73 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say the quality of candidates running for office in their district has been good, just 27 % of Republicans say the same. Among Republicans and Republican leaners, nearly twice as many ( 61 % ) say it has been bad.
Similarly, liberal Democrats and those who lean to the Democratic Party are more likely than conservative and moderate Democrats to see policies aimed at reducing the effects of climate change as positive for the environment. Large shares of liberal Democrats ( 78 % ) and conservative Republicans ( 64 % ) say climate change policies are very or somewhat good for the country. The views of moderate and liberal Republicans are roughly the same as they are for the rest of the political spectrum ( 30 % vs. 12 % ).
About two-thirds of Republicans ( 64 % ) say they see police in the country more as a problem than a problem, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted July 16-Sept. 12. Another 52 % say police are not as important to the country as they were a year ago.
About three-in-ten each say they very closely followed news about the elections in Afghanistan ( 23 % ) and the funeral protest in Hungary ( 19 % ).
By contrast, nearly identical percentages of Democrats ( 56 % ), Republicans ( 57 % ) and independents ( 59 % ) have a favorable opinion of their state's government. Similarly, local governments receive positive ratings from 67 % of Democrats, 63 % of Republicans and 60 % of independents. Read more
The American public is closely divided over the possibility that genetically engineering animals to grow human organs or tissues is an appropriate use of medical technology. A majority of U.S. adults ( 57 % ) say genetically engineering an unborn baby to grow organs or tissues for humans is an acceptable use of technology, while 41 % say this is taking technology too far. Just 22 % of Americans think it is appropriate to use gene editing to reduce the risk of future health problems from occurring.
More broadly, parents of young children are more concerned about the risk of side effects from the MMR vaccine than are parents of older children. About seven-in-ten parents of children ages 5 to 17 ( 69 % ) and 43 % of parents of a child ages 6 to 17 say the risk for side effects of the vaccine is at least a minor threat. This is particularly true among parents of smaller children. Roughly similar shares in both groups say the disease is a major threat to their children.
A plurality of Americans say NATO does too little for security around the world. A 48 % plurality say this means that the organization does not do enough to help solve global problems ; just 31 % think it does too much. However, Republicans and Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party ( 60 % ) are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say NATO is doing too little. A plurality of Democrats ( 48 % ) say this, while Republicans are divided. Support for NATO is highest among Democrats ( 59 % ) and Democratic-leaning independents ( 57 % ).
Of the two issues, climate change is the more commonly selected threat in eight of 14 countries polled, while five name the spread of infectious diseases as a top threat ( the Canadian public is split, with equal shares citing climate change and infectious disease as major threats ). Majorities in each of the countries surveyed say both global warming and global infectious disease are major threats to their country. The share who cite climate change as a major threat in each country ranges from 59 % in Australia to 83 % in France, Spain and Italy. Two-thirds or more say the same in Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK
Our October survey revealed a wide gulf in how Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton supporters viewed the country. It found Donald Trump supporters overwhelmingly believed that life in America is worse than it was 50 years ago `` for people like them, '' while most Hillary Clinton backers took the opposite view, saying life is about as easy for them personally. The candidates'supporters also differed in their expectations for the nation's future. Trump backers were broadly pessimistic, while Clinton supporters had mixed assessments. About half ( 49 % ) believed America hasn't changed much over the past half-century, while 15 % said it has stayed about the same and
Republicans and Democrats in the ideological middle within their respective parties ( that is, moderate/liberal Republicans and moderate/conservative Democrats ) fall somewhere in between in terms of how they see human activity influencing climate change. For instance, 35 % of moderate or liberal Republicans say human activity has a great deal of impact on climate change, while roughly two-thirds of moderate and conservative Democrats ( 64 % ) see it as a major contributor.
About half of Republicans ( 52 % ) say the Senate should not hold hearings and vote on Obama's nominee for the high court. A smaller share ( 37 % ) of Democrats say the party should hold hearings, rather than delaying action until the next president selects a court nominee. There are wide ideological differences on this question among Republicans. About eight-in-ten conservative Republicans ( 79 % ) – as well as 85 % of moderate and liberal Republicans – say the U.S. government should not be holding hearings until the choice of the president's court nominee is better known. Among Democrats, 51 % think the Senate
The public has an unfavorable opinion of Michelle Obama, who was scheduled to visit President Obama in January for a second term, but did not receive a favorable rating. Overall, 37 % of Americans say Obama's record as first lady will be good for the country, while 37 % say it will be bad. A majority ( 56 % ) of Republicans and independents who lean to the Republican Party view Obama positively, compared with just 27 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners who view her unfavorably.
While only a minority of Americans ( 54 % ) say it is acceptable for the American government to monitor ordinary American citizens, many think it is appropriate to monitor others in a variety of other situations. Americans generally support the use of surveillance to investigate criminal activity, as well as circumstances when a person's digital activity may raise suspicion of potential involvement with terrorism or violent acts.
Substantial shares of Americans and Germans worry about the financial situation of average people in their country. Roughly half of Americans ( 46 % ) and Germans ( 45 % ) say they are somewhat or very worried about the economic situation for average people. Only 15 % of Germans say the same.
Millennials are especially likely to be library users : 53 % have visited a public library or bookmobile in the past year, compared with 41 % of Generation Xers, 52 % in Boomers and 70 % of Silents. Public library users include young adults who have completed college ( ages 18 to 35 ) and those who are pursuing a postgraduate degree ( 36 % ).
A growing share of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say the U.S. is divided, rather than united. The share who say the party is divided has declined 10 percentage points since early 2017, when 39 % said the party was divided.
There also are striking educational differences in partisans'views of global warming. Among Republicans, higher education is linked to greater skepticism about global warming — fully 75 % of Republicans with a college degree say that there is no evidence of global climate change, compared with 52 % of those with less education. But among Democrats, the pattern is the reverse. Fully 75 % among Democrats with a high school diploma or less believe that there has been solid global warming in the past few years. This is far higher than among Democrats who have less education among whom 52 % say the same. Independents, regardless of education levels, fall in between
In 17 of the 24 countries surveyed, majorities or pluralities say news media are doing a good job covering the most important stories. About a third or more in each country say this, but in Brazil, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and the United States, women are much more likely than men to say news organizations are doing an excellent job.
Beyond current borders, Russians also look beyond other countries to ensure that there are parts of other countries that really belong to Russia. Roughly six-in-ten Russians ( 59 % ) say that there is parts of neighboring countries that are not really part of Russia's national identity ; only 10 % think these parts are there. The numbers on this question break sharply along partisan lines. More than half of Democrats ( 53 % ) and independents ( 56 % ) think Russia is out of touch with other nations ; only about a third ( 28 % ) do so.
Greece is not Keen on the U.S. image. As was the case four years ago, a sizable majority of Greeks ( 65 % ) and pluralities of independents ( 59 % ) say they do not Keen to see the United States as a good thing for Europe. However, Greece is not alone in their opposition to Obama – three-quarters of Greeks say they disapprove of the way Obama is handling his job in office.
There are also gender differences on many of these values. For instance, women are more inclined to prioritize teaching religious faith to others ( 91 % ), helping others ( 74 % ) and being well-mannered ( 66 % ). Men are less inclined than women to prioritize these qualities, however. For example, women ages 40 and older are less likely than men to say it is important for children to be taught religious faith ( 61 % vs. 55 %, respectively ), and to focus on one's own role in society ( 44 % to 21 % ) ; it is more important for women to be focused on
More devices and more people are connected to the internet than ever before. Fully 39 % of internet users with four or more internet-connected devices ( such as a laptop, cell phone, game console or Kindle ) use Twitter. This is a nearly identical increase ( 42 % ) to internet users who have three devices and one device only.
With the election less than five months away, Americans are more likely to express interest in the candidates for the 2016 presidential election. Roughly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) say they have given a lot of thought to the candidates, compared with 29 % who say the same about the economy.
A majority of Americans ( 58 % ) say they believe in evolution by their own religious tradition, while 48 % say the same about Muslims. Among Protestants, three-in-ten ( 32 % ) think Muslims are more likely than Christians to be aware of evolution and that it is necessary to believe in the same to be moral, according to a recent Pew Research Center survey.
About one-third of those ages 18 to 29 ( 34 % ) have student loan debt, the highest among ages 25 to 29. Young adults who are young enough to have student loans are much more likely to have problems paying back their loan debt ( 22 % vs. 7 % ).
On balance, Americans tend to be more tolerant of speech offensive to religion and minorities than people in other countries. For example, about two-thirds or more in the U.S. ( 67 % ), the UK ( 57 % ) and Germany ( 54 % ) say it is acceptable to say offensive speech to Muslims about minorities is unacceptable. By contrast, a majority of those in Spain ( 56 % ) see this as unacceptable, and only 32 % say the same about Italy. Italians are also more tolerant than Americans on other issues, such as religion and homosexuality.
But there is a clear divide when it comes to views of migrants in Colombia and Mexico. Across the six countries surveyed, a median of 43 % have a negative view of migrants living in Colombia, while 43 % see them as a positive thing.
The public is highly critical of how Donald Trump and Republican congressional leaders are handling negotiations over the government shutdown. Nearly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) disapprove of the way Trump is handling the negotiations. A similar majority ( 60 % ) approves of Democratic congressional leaders and 37 % disapprove.
Similarly, there is little difference in public trust in information from food industry leaders about the health effects of GM foods. Only a small share of Americans ( 35 % ) say they trust industry leaders a great deal or fair amount to give people accurate information about the risks of genetically modified foods ( 41 % ). Similarly, just 22 % of those who care at least a fair amount about GM foods say they have low trust in elected officials who care about these issues.
Among people who offer an opinion of the religiosity of leading Republican candidates, more say that John McCain is very ( 28 % ) or somewhat ( 15 % ) religious than say the same about Hillary Clinton ( 16 % ). Yet wide majorities see all three as at least somewhat religious, and those who do view the candidates in overwhelmingly favorable terms.
A majority of white adults ( 76 % ) say discrimination against racial and ethnic groups is a big problem, but just 25 % of black adults say the same. About six-in-ten black adults ( 61 % ) also say that discrimination against Hispanics is a very big problem.
The public paid very close attention to news about Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's heart trouble, while the media devoted 3 % of coverage to the story. Nearly one-in-three ( 3 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely, while 3 % say they followed reports about Clinton most closely. News about the condition of the U.S. economy accounted for 2 % of newshole last week, according to PEJ.
A growing share of Americans say they are comfortable with gays and lesbians among religious congregations. In 2006, 39 % of U.S. adults were open to gays and lesbian people as members of a religious group, up from 37 % in 2006. And the share who were allowed to do so has grown steadily – from 19 % to 31 % in 2012 – since 2006, according to Gallup.
In addition, the public is generally critical of the federal government's response to the recent influx of refugees. About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) say the government has done a fair or poor job responding to the humanitarian crisis, while 29 % say the response has been about right. About a quarter ( 28 % ) of Republicans and 29 % of independents call the response either the right decision or the wrong decision.
As desegregation, rising incomes and increased access to financial aid resulted in more college options for blacks, the share of black students attending HBCUs began to shrink. By 2015, nearly 300,000 students attended one of the 10 largest public colleges or universities – either St. Philip's College ( 327,000 ) or North Carolina's Bernard M. Baruch College ( 445,800 ) – compared with about a third ( 33,900 ) who attended an HBCU in 2000.
Large majorities of Americans say the tone and nature of political debate in the United States has become more negative in recent years. More than eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 85 % ) say it has become less respectful and less focused on issues, according to a survey conducted this spring. About three-quarters ( 76 % ) believe Donald Trump is playing a more important role in this country today than he did a decade ago – a sharp rise since the 2008 election, when Donald Trump won the Republican nomination and the Democratic nomination. More Americans say Trump has changed the nature of presidential debate ( 35 % ) than say
In other news last week, the public continued to pay close attention to the Iraq policy debate in spite of limited press coverage. Nearly three-in-ten Americans ( 23 % ) followed news about Iraq policy very closely, and 14 % listed this as their most closely followed story.
Across 10 emerging and developing nations surveyed, a median of 58 % say the UN promotes peace and human rights, while 27 % say it does not. This level of confidence is especially strong among Germans. In fact, on balance, majorities in both Germany and the U.S. say the same about the UN : 68 % of Germans and 59 % of Americans say this, compared with only 38 % of the French. In contrast, only in the UK and Germany do majorities believe the UN cares about ordinary people ( 47 % and 60 %, respectively ).
Vast majority of teens are skipping out of school altogether for more leisure activities than during the summer. Instead, about four-in-ten teens ages 18 - 22 are spending more time in their schoolrooms, playing sports or exercising compared with teens 50 and older. Socializing is also a major reason why teens are less engaged with screens than teens in the first place.
A median of 35 % across the 13 advanced economies surveyed have a positive view of the U.S., while 35 % view it negatively. Opinions are especially negative in South Korea, Denmark, Germany and Belgium.
With this in mind, many multiracial adults say they feel more open to and understanding of other races and ethnicities than they are to people of different racial backgrounds. And when asked about their feeling as open to other races as a whole, 59 % of multireacial adults feel that they are more `` open to people from different racial groups, '' while just 19 % say the same about their own race. When asked about a feeling of ``bridge '' between different religious groups, too, a majority of multibacial adults ( 59 % ) say their feelings are about the same as they were a decade ago.
Roughly half of Gen Zers ( 53 % ) say same-sex marriage is a good thing for society, while just 10 % say it's bad for society. These views are largely unchanged since 2016.
When it comes to the extent to which fathers are living apart from their children, a plurality ( 36 % ) report that they spend more time with their children than they did with their husband or partner. Some 17 % of fathers say that they have `` some '' children younger than age 18 and 17 % say the same about their children. In addition, a small share ( 6 % ) say that some of their children may not be living with their spouses at all. About one-in-five ( 21 % ) reports that they are living with a partner or partner outside of their marriage.
An estimated 738,000 Hispanics of Venezuelan origin lived in the United States in 2017, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey. Venezuelans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Venezuela origin ; this includes immigrants from Venezuela and those who trace their family ancestry to Venezuela. Venezuelan immigrants are the seventh-largest population of Hispanic origin living in United States, accounting for 1 % of the 1.5 million Hispanics in 2017. Since 2000, the Venezuelan-origin population has increased 108 %, growing from 167,000 to 1.4 million
Biden leads among Hispanic voters across demographic groups. Nearly six-in-ten Hispanic voters ages 18 to 49 ( 63 % ) report voting for Biden, the highest share among the age groups. By contrast, only 29 % of Hispanic voters 50 and older say the same.
The top origin countries of the U.S. foreign-born population is Jamaica, Nigeria, and Nigeria. In 2016, a estimated 7.8 million black immigrants living in the United States were from this country, accounting for 2 % of the total foreign born population.
Across all demographic groups, people with a postgraduate degree are more likely than those with less education to trust EU information. For example, just 10 % of those with postgraduate degrees say they trust the EU information much more than those who have not completed college.
About four-in-ten internet users ( 48 % ) say they use social networking sites, compared with 31 % of the population in the U.S., according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of 2013 data from the World Economic Forum's Global Attitudes Project. This means that nearly all internet users in the Selected countries surveyed are either working or residential.
The discussion on COVID-19 was largely online among members of Congress, with about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) saying they had seen or heard a lot about the discussion online. But a smaller share of Congress who had heard or read a lot ( 22 % ) or a little ( 26 % ) about the outbreak made up a small share of the new Twitter conversation.
Americans are divided on whether the Chinese government should conduct the Olympics in Beijing : 55 % say this was the right decision, while 45 % say it was the wrong decision. Germans and Italians are also divided on this issue, while 48 % of Germans and 39 % of Italians call the Olympics a good decision. Americans are split on whether China should release the Olympic Games in China ( 39 % decision, 47 % wrong decision ). By contrast, a majority of Germans ( 55 % ) and a narrow majority of Italians ( 45 % ) say the Olympics should be held in China.
In the most recent survey, about three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say they followed news about the Supreme Court's ruling on the Affordable Care Act very closely, while 12 % followed the ruling in 2009 and later. Interest in the 2008 ruling was similar to what it was in 2009 when the Court ruled on same-sex marriage ( 13 % very closely ) and to 2010, when the Voting Right Act ( also 13 % ) was enacted.
For example, seven-in-ten or more people in the U.S. ( 78 % ) say that military force is necessary to maintain order in the world, while 21 % say it is not necessary. Majorities in Canada ( 71 % ), the UK ( 62 % ) and Hungary ( 55 % ) also hold this view. The Czech Republic is the only country surveyed where a majority does not express support for military force.
Roughly four-in-ten Republicans ( 38 % ) say increasing tariffs on imported U.S. products is bad for the country, while 37 % say the same about the tariffs approved in July. The share saying tariffs are good for the U.K. has declined six points since September, when 56 % said they were bad for America.
About two-thirds of police officers ( 64 % ) see the dual nature of their work as conflicting because they are constantly or sometimes in conflict with the communities they serve. A similar share ( 67 % ) say they have been sexually harassed or bullied by a community member while on duty ; far fewer ( 2 % ) report having been physically abused.
Majorities in both partisan groups favor allowing unmarried couples to have the same legal rights as married couples. About seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 71 % ) favor a law that would provide same rights to unmarried people, while 34 % oppose it. Republicans and Republican leaners are far more likely than Democrats and GOP leaners to favor this proposal ( 50 % vs. 34 % ).
Digital advertising revenue's rapid growth also continued in 2018 across all types of digital outlets. In 2017, digital advertising revenue was $ 10.2 billion, compared with $ 3.5 billion in 2017.
A majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 59 % ) say the federal government does not provide enough help for the poor, middle class and wealthy. However, the share of Republicans who say the government does too much for each group is higher than that for the wealthy. About half of Republicans ( 51 % ) who live in households earning $ 75,000 or more a year say the U.S. government provides about as much help as it does for the rich. A smaller majority ( 58 % ) of Republicans whose annual family income is between $ 40,000 and $ 74,999 say the same.
For example, results from this survey show that people's comfort with or likelihood of engaging with the contact tracing and isolation process ( speak, share, quarantine ) rises with increased awareness of contact tracing. Some 63 % of those who have seen or heard a great deal about contact tracing say they would be comfortable or likely to engage with all three parts of the contact- tracing effort that we explore here : that is, speaking with a public health official by phone or text message, sharing names of contacts and names of locations or location data, and quarantining. In contrast, 35 % of cellphone owners say they do not answer
There are also racial and educational differences in views of how powerful a role the U.S. plays on the world stage. For example, white, black and Hispanic Americans are more likely than white adults ( 59 % vs. 29 % ) to say the United States should be active on the global stage.
A growing share of Americans now use smartphones as their primary means of online access at home. Today, roughly one-in-five American adults are `` smartphone-only '' internet users – meaning they own a smartphone, but do not have traditional home broadband service.
Views of President Vladimir Putin are more negative than positive. A median of 32 % across the 34 countries surveyed have a favorable view of Putin, while only 18 % view him unfavorably. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is viewed favorably by just 9 % and 5 %, respectively,.
About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) Americans say it should be both Trump and Democratic leaders when it comes to who should take the lead in presidential affairs ; a slightly smaller share ( 48 % ) says it's up to Trump to decide. Democratic leaders are divided : 49 % say Trump should be the lead, while 48 % say it is more likely to be Democratic leaders.
Jehovah's Witnesses ( 94 % ) are the most likely to read scripture at least weekly, by far the highest share of any religious tradition. In fact, 88 % of those who are members of the historically black Protestant tradition ( now known as the Gourd Farming Educational Society ) read scripture weekly, a level more comparable to that seen among those in the evangelical tradition ( 88 % ), Mormons ( 91 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 62 % ) than among those who were born in the historically white Protestant tradition.
In a survey conducted this spring, more than six-in-ten Millennials ( 58 % ) supported censoring offensive statements about minorities in general, compared with 28 % of those ages 18 to 34. Younger adults, in turn, are more likely than older adults to support such statements. Majorities of Millennials ( 70 % ), Generation X ( 69 % ) and Baby Boomers ( 68 % ) say this, as do 73 % of Millennials.
In the new survey, 36 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say they favor or oppose allowing gays and lesbians to marry, reflecting a slight increase in their support since 2003, when just 15 % were opposed. Views of same-sex marriage have changed little in recent years, according to a survey conducted in October and November of last year.
Among those who have used social media in the past year, about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they have changed their views on the Black Lives Matter movement because of it, and 10 % say the same about police brutality or the need for police reform. Political parties or ideologies are also a major factor in race relations, in general, and President Donald Trump receives his lowest ratings for his temperament ( 10 % of social media users say he is a good or great president ).
There is broad agreement across demographic groups on how Trump will impact the lives of Americans in his administration. About eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 81 % ) say that poor people will be worse off by Trump taking office, while just 13 % say they will be better off ; 25 % expect the same to be true of the military and 16 % say there will be no difference.
While support for offshore drilling has largely rebounded, many Americans also support investments in alternative energy. By a two-to-one ratio, a greater share of the public favors developing alternatives like wind, solar and hydrogen over expanding ventures into oil, coal and natural gas ( 60 % vs. 30 % ). In fact, the public takes something of an all-of-the-above approach to energy : 81 % support better fuel-efficiency requirements and 58 % want more mining and drilling on federal land. An additional 41 % would favor the government promoting the increased use of nuclear power.
The debate over the Keystone XL pipeline is drawing public support. By a 61 % to 29 % margin, Democrats and Democratic leaners favor building the pipeline, while Republicans are divided : 47 % favor it, while 49 % oppose it.
The Pew Research Center surveyed public opinion about the importance of major political parties and organizations in Spain and Italy last week. About six-in-ten ( 63 % ) rate the April 6 Movement as excellent or good, while 63 % say the same about the Supreme Court.
Social scientists and engineers are divided over the future of social relations in the country. A large majority of social scientists ( 74 % ) and engineers ( 70 % ) say social relations will become worse in the next 12 months, while roughly half ( 49 % ) of these experts say relations will stay about the same. These experts are not the only ones who foresee a slippery slope – a Pew Research Center survey conducted in spring 2015 found that social networking experts are split on the future. Roughly one-in-five experts ( 15 % ) believe relations will worsen, while a similar share ( 20 % ) expect relations to stay about
All of this adds up to generally less intense use of the internet by rural Americans than others. This shows up in several ways : the likelihood that a person goes online on a given day, the number of online activities engaged in on the typical day, and theNumber of online interactions engaged in during that time.
In many countries surveyed, there is a strong consensus that free markets are good for the economy, according to a Pew Research Center survey of 18 countries in the region. However, that does not mean that everyone in a country should be free to pursue their economic life's goals without interference from the state or the government.
An estimated 656,000 Hispanics of Dominican origin lived in the United States in 2017, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey. Dominicans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Dominican origin ; this includes immigrants from Dominican origin and those who trace their family ancestry to Dominican Republic. Dominican immigrants are the 14th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the US, accounting for 2 % of the total Hispanic population in 2017. Since 2000, the Dominican-origin population has increased 255 %, growing from 237,000 to
In other news, the public continued to pay close attention to the Iraq war in spite of limited press coverage. Nearly four-in-ten Americans ( 29 % ) followed news about the war very closely and 29 % listed this as their most closely followed story for the week. News about the situation in Iraq accounted for 2 % of coverage.
Majorities of both Republicans ( 85 % ) and Democrats ( 84 % ) oppose making voting mandatory. But the balance of opinion is reversed among Republicans : 85 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say all citizens should be able to be required to vote, while just 20 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say the same. The share of Republicans who oppose voting has fallen from 65 % in the early 2000s to 43 % today. As in the past, there are substantial partisan differences in views of voting. Fully 85 % Republicans who support mandatory voting say citizens should have to prove they want to vote by registering ahead of time
Issues related to the ongoing drug war top the Mexican public's list of concerns. More than seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) say cartel-related violence is a very big problem for the country, while fewer than half ( 52 % ) see poor quality schools and people leaving for jobs as very big problems. In addition, the number of unemployed people in Mexico continues to rise, from 37 % to 38 %.
By roughly two-to-one ( 60 % to 21 % ), the public supports cuts in government spending in most areas of government. Just 36 % say government spending should increase, decrease or keep spending the same for things such as energy and infrastructure, while 43 % want to keep spending about the same as it is now. The public is divided over whether the government should increase or decrease its spending on roads and bridges, national disasterrelief or food and drug inspection.
On balance, Americans see the impact of automation on jobs as more negative than positive. Nearly half of U.S. adults ( 48 % ) say that the automation has made it harder for people to find jobs, while just 22 % say it has been more good for the country.
While the media divided its time last week among a host of major news stories, the public remained intensely focused on the situation in Iraq. Fully 16 % of Americans paid very closely attention to events in Iraq and 14 % said this was the story they followed more closely than any other — making it the second most closely followed story for the week.
By contrast, white evangelical Protestants – who make up just less than a third of all Republicans and Republican leaners – feel that Bush had lost influence in foreign affairs. The percentage of white evangelicals with a annual household income of $ 30,000 or more has risen from 38 % in 2001 to 43 % today. This is a stark contrast to the wide majority of white mainline Protestants who say the same ( 58 % ).
Survey respondents who have heard of the government's surveillance programs say they have changed their use of technology somewhat ( 18 % ) or very ( 13 % ). By comparison, just 13 % of those who have read a great deal or a fair amount about the surveillance programs have stopped using computers, cell phones or other mobile devices.
Men and women who have used online dating sites or apps hold somewhat differing views about the types of harassment that occurs on these platforms. A majority of female online daters younger than 50 say harassment ( 66 % ) is very common on dating platforms. That compares with 42 % of male users ages 18 to 34 and a similar share of female users ages 50 and older.
More Americans say there are very strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans today than did so a year ago ( 56 % ). And nearly half of Americans ( 52 % ) say there were not conflicts, while 44 % said there were `` not conflicts. ''
Most Americans think political leaders are making an effort to work with Democrats, but just 33 % think they are doing an `` excellent '' or `` good '' job. The survey also finds that political leaders'lack of effort is driven in part by political misunderstandings. About half ( 53 % ) of political leaders say political leaders make an excellent or good impression on Democrats, compared with 53 % who say they do not.
Overall, 44 % say news organizations have given too much coverage to the economy and about the same amount to the deficit and the national debt. A smaller majority ( 44 % ) say news about the economy gets too little attention ; just 11 % say the same about the federal budget.
A similar pattern emerges when it comes to the topic of race : 14 % of black adults and 15 % of Asian adults say they talk about race with friends or family `` often '' ( 35 % ) or `` sometimes '' ( 13 % ) about religion. By comparison, about two-in-ten white adults ( 52 % ) and a similar share of Hispanic adults ( 37 % ) say about religion at least sometimes, but black and Asian adults are about equally likely to say this.
Views of China are similar to those of the U.S. in the general public's views of President Donald Trump. Across the 38 countries surveyed, a median of 47 % express a favorable view of China, while 37 % express an unfavorable view. However, views of China vary drastically across the countries surveyed. A median of 54 % of those surveyed in the Islamic Republic say they have confidence in Trump to protect individual liberty, compared with a global median of 53 % who say the same about Xi.
Nearly a quarter of Hispanic voters in the U.S. voted in a midterm election for the first time in 2018, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data. In a survey conducted shortly after the November 2018 midterm election, nearly one-in-five Hispanic voters ( 18 % ) said they had cast their ballot in a congressional election before the election, compared with 8 % of white voters and 12 % of black voters.
People in the Philippines and Vietnam have confidence in President Donald Trump, while people in South Korea and Japan do not. People in both countries do not express confidence in the U.S. president to do the right thing regarding world affairs. Across the surveyed nations, a median of 53 % have confidence In Trump, though 38 % in Philippines and 29 % in South Korean say they do not have confidence.
More broadly, a majority of Americans ( 56 % ) say that when it comes to technology, new products tend to be more popular than the familiar. A minority ( 35 % ) is also more inclined to like the variety of trying new products and products on the market. Just 15 % say they prefer being able to tell others about the new products they have tried.
The public's concerns about the state of the economy are not limited to the U.S. economy. A global median of 51 % say the condition of the global economy is a very big problem for their country, and almost half ( 47 % ) say the same about the economy in general. But there are regional divides on this issue, with people from Latin America and Asia expressing more negative views than those from the Middle East.
More than four-in-ten veterans ( 38 % ) say it was difficult for them to readjust to civilian life, compared with about a third ( 32 % ) who say the same. The vast majority of veterans who have served in post-9/11 eras say this was not too or not at all difficult. However, about three-quarters of veterans ( 73 % ) report that it was at least somewhat easy to read to civilian Life, compared to smaller shares of those who have done so in the past decade or so.
The public continues to get mixed views of news about gas prices : 70 % say they have heard a mix of good and bad news about the gas prices, while 26 % say news about that is mostly bad news. About half ( 48 % ) say they are hearing mostly good news, while 45 % say the news is a mix.
The incomes of top-income earners have increased more than incomes of other families. In 2018 dollars, the incomes of the top 5 % of earners increased nearly threefold ( from $ 138,600 in 1981 to $ 141,900 in 2018 dollars ). By contrast, incomes for the bottom 5 % earners were about $ 50,000 less in 1998 dollars, and they increased by 11 percentage points from 1992 to 1998. ( The incomes of bottom-income households increased by 1 percentage point as well. )
While crime is relatively high in the U.S., it's less likely to be the target of aggravated assault and simple assault. In fact, auto thefts are about twice as likely as murders to be solved ( 61 % vs. 29 % ).
And a growing share of voters ( 26 % ) say the two parties can not agree on basic facts about important issues facing the country, even if they disagree over plans and policies. Two-thirds of Republican voters ( 66 % ) and a smaller share of Democrats ( 64 % ) – say the parties cann't agree on essential facts about the country because they often disagree over policies and plans. In this regard, Democrats and Republicans – in particular – are in rare agreement with their Republican counterparts on important issues. A 73 % majority of Democrats and 57 % of Republicans say they can agree to basic facts even if the Republican candidate
The Latino population has nearly doubled over the past half century, from 6.5 million in 1960 to 85.2 million in 2050. By 2050, the Latino population will account for 85 % of the total, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data from the Census Bureau. A major driver of all this growth has been the near doubling of the U.S.-born population. The white population and the Asian population are projected to each account for 1 % of all the population in the next 50 years.
Seven-in-ten rural Indians say the BJP is having a good influence on India's future, including a majority ( 60 % ) who say the same about the Congress party. Similar majorities of urban and suburban Indians ( 68 % each ) and Muslim ( 59 % ) support the Hindu-nationalist opposition Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ).
About two-thirds of Americans who are high in religious commitment ( 64 % ) say they talk about religion with other people outside their family at least a few times a week. By comparison, just 22 % of those not highly religious agree.
The public is supportive of many gun policy proposals. Nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) favor banning the online sale of guns in schools, while 39 % oppose such a restriction. More teachers and school officials favor banning assault-style weapons.
Among those who attend religious services at least weekly, 41 % of Trump supporters say they strongly support him, while 40 % do not strongly. This includes about three-in-ten who attend Trump weekly ( 29 % ) and who say they don't strongly support Trump ( 30 % ).
The public is more divided when it comes to whether U.S. efforts to solve global problems do more good than bad. About as many ( 43 % ) say their greater focus is on solving global problems, while 38 % think U.N. efforts do more harm. Nearly six-in-ten Republicans ( 56 % ) and a majority of independents ( 59 % ) hold this view.
About seven-in-ten adults ( 70 % ) say the national news media has a negative effect on the way things are going in the country today, while just 27 % say it has a positive effect. Views are more mixed when examined news organizations'impact on the country as a whole, with the public expressing more mixed views.
Perhaps the most telling partisan divisions are on increasing the federal minimum wage to $ 15 an hour ( 57 % favor this increase vs. 43 % oppose it ). A smaller majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 67 % ) favor taking the minimum wage too far, though by a wide margin this proposal is favored by just 15 % of Republicans and GOP leaners.
Overall, 40 % of cell owners used their mobile devices in the 30 days preceding our survey for one or more of these reasons, and cell owners under the age of 25 have high levels of engagement in each of these activities. At the same time, using one's cell phone to interact with friends or family about a television program is relatively common with older cell owners as well—engagement in this behavior does not drop significantly until approximately age 45.
For example, a median of 76 % across the 10 countries surveyed say migrants are fleeing violence and war, while just 27 % hold this view. Majorities in most countries say refugees are fleeing war and violence, including 80 % in Venezuela and 76 % in Colombia.
But the latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press, conducted July 11 - 14 among 1,000 adults ages 18 and older, finds that relatively few ( 9 % ) remember where they were at the time of the assassination, including 95 % who identified as the first man on the moon.
There was an 11-percentage-point gender gap among younger voters in their vote for the Republican nomination. Nearly half ( 48 % ) of voters ages 18 to 34 voted for the GOP nomination, compared with 43 % of voters 65 and older. This gender gap exists among voters 50 and older, as well as among voters age 18 - 34.
NATO is seen as a good thing for the United States. Fully 77 % of Americans say NATO is good for the U.S., while just 16 % say it is bad for the country. Large majorities of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents and Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party ( 60 % ) and Republican leaners ( 65 % ) say the same.
For example, young Latinos in the U.S. are especially likely to use social networking sites and to use email to communicate with friends. Some 23 % of teens say they use these sites to check up on someone they know in the past year ; 21 % say the same about schoolfills.
Majorities oppose more spending for education ( 75 % ) and science ( 64 % ). In particular, the public supports smaller government spending for military defense ( 35 % favor smaller spending ). The only area included in the survey that supports cuts in government spending is to reduce the tax deduction for mortgage interest ( 44 % oppose ). More than six-in-ten ( 59 % ) support raising the tax on higher-income people to reduce federal funding for college loans.
The new survey also finds that the general public is less likely to recognize a hypothesis about a problem in everyday life that is at least somewhat different from the one asked about in a previous survey. For example, half of Americans ( 50 % ) say that the use of a new drug to reduce the risk of serious disease a person might develop over their lifetime is a very or somewhat common occurrence in daily life, while half ( 51 % ) think it is a somewhat common. These findings are largely unchanged from a 2016 survey.
Overall, nearly one-in-four U.S. Catholics ( 23 % ) have ever been divorced, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in October 2019. But the degree to which Catholics have been divorced varies by marital status, as well as by previous marriage : 39 % of married Catholics report having been divorced in the past year, while 35 % say they have been living with a partner outside of marriage.
Overwhelmingly, Indians give their government high marks for its handling of the economy ; 75 % say the government is doing the good job. And a median of 62 % expect conditions to improve in the next 12 months, while 50 % think nothing will change.
The public places relatively high levels of trust in medical scientists ( 43 % ), scientists ( 45 % ) and military leaders ( 39 % ). By comparison, fewer than half ( 46 % ) trust religious leaders, scientists and journalists.
But as is the case with most attitudes about the conduct of elections and proposals on voting, partisans are sharply divided in these views. Large majorities of Republicans are confident that the election will be conducted fairly and accurately ( 75 % ) and that all citizens who want to vote will be able to do so ( 87 % ).
Many Americans say the U.S.'s top goals in the Middle East should be to prevent terrorist attacks on civilians. Fewer ( 39 % ) say the same about helping to protect Israel. And 39 % do so for preventing the spread of terrorism.
There is a pervasive gloominess about the state of the economy throughout much of the world. Across the 25 countries polled, a median of 59 % say crime is a very big problem in their country, the highest of seven issues tested. An additional 59 % identify health care as a moderately big problem, and around half or more say the same about corruption ( 50 % ) and economic problems ( 54 % ). However, in many countries, people also express concern about water and air pollution.
Across the 14 non-European countries surveyed, a median of 52 % believe China is the world's leading economic power, while 35 % say the same of the U.S. Only in Italy and Germany do majorities believe the same.
Last July's military takeover wins support from a slender majority : 54 % favor it ; 43 % oppose. And while the next president is almost certain to be Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, the former general who has been the most powerful figure in the country since last year's overthrow of the government, the new poll finds that his popularity is limited. Sisi receives a favorable rating from 54 % of Egyptians, while 45 % view him unfavorably, a more mixed review than many media reports from Egypt over the last year might suggest.
Along with asking teens whether they use Twitter or not, the Pew Research Center found that those who are Twitter users grew more likely to use the platform at a rapid rate over the past decade or so : between 64 % and 73 % of adult Twitter users in 2014 said they used Twitter at least once before, compared with 64 % of those who did not use Twitter.
About eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners ( 81 % ) say Trump should work with Democrats to stand up to Democrats get things done, even if it bothers Democrats. A similar share ( 70 % ) says Trump should listen to Trump on issues important to supporters. The belief that Trump is not listening to Democrats is shared by a small share ( 35 % ) among Republicans and GOP leaners who lean toward the GOP.
EU favorability varies widely by country in Europe. A median of 72 % across the 10 EU countries surveyed have a favorable view of the EU, compared with a median of 47 % who have an unfavorable opinion. In Spain and Italy, roughly half or more view the EU favorably ( 49 % and 47 %, respectively ).
This past year, the U.S. workforce increased by about 20.1 % as a result of the growing number of union workers in the United States, making it the country's second largest labor force, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The 50.7 % of workers who were union members in 2012 was more than 11 percentage points larger than the share in 1983 ( 10.3 % ), the first year for which comparable data is available. ( Unions are not represented in this analysis as they are currently. )
Overall, the proportion of Americans who had changed their purchasing preference on a product or service yesterday stands at 25 %. That is up from 25 % in a similar period of time – or roughly the same as in September – but by a smaller margin among those who said they hadn't changed their preferences at all.
Republicans and Democrats also have sizable differences in views of social media companies'labeling of elected officials as misleading or inaccurate. Roughly three-quarters of Republicans ( 73 % ) and Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 74 % ) say they have a great deal of confidence in these companies to prevent political misinformation from circulating, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in October.
By the third generation – a group made up of the U.S.-born children of U.-born parents and immigrant grandparents – the share that self-identifies as Hispanic falls to 77 %. And by the fourth or higher generation – just 50 % of Americans with Hispanic ancestry say they are Hispanic, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data.1
Chinese President Xi Jinping is visiting France, Italy and Monaco this week to strengthen relations with potential European investment partners, though he does so at a time when EU countries lack confidence in him and do not embrace the idea of Chinese global leadership, according to a Pew Research Center survey. In all but one of the 25 countries surveyed, majorities say they have little or no confidence in Xi to do the right thing regarding world affairs.
By roughly eight-to-one ( 86 % to 10 % ), Americans say that the people in their household are reacting about right to the coronavirus outbreak. Ordinary people across the country are equally as likely to say so as are their state government and local government.
Catholics are also more likely than Protestants to attend religious services at least once a month, according to a recent Pew Research Center survey. Only 5 % of Catholics, for example, say they regularly drink alcohol but not every day or almost every day. And about two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Catholics say they never go to religious services in person, compared with 52 % of Protestants who do. The higher rate of caffeinated alcoholic beverages among Protestants is due in part to the large number of Latinos in the U.S. Catholic Church, and the opposition to alcohol in many Central and South American cultures.
Nearly four-in-ten Democrats ( 43 % ) identify as liberal, up from 43 % in 2007. The share of Democrats who identify as conservative has steadily grown over the past decade, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data. As a result, nearly half of Democrats ( 48 % ) – once the nation's fastest-growing party – identify as either conservative or liberal. This is a 7 percentage point increase since 2007, when 44 % of Democratsidentified as conservative.
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites. Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 61 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ). People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party. Currently, 61 % of those who do not identify with any religion lean Democratic – a 22-year high. Back to top
When it comes to social media, the gender gap in these platforms hasn't changed much since 2010, when Pew Research first asked the question. While a majority of Americans ( 56 % ) say they use social media at least occasionally, the share of those who do so is smaller than the share who say the same about Facebook ( 32 % ) and Twitter ( 34 % ).
In other news last week, the public continued to pay close attention to the Iraq war in spite of limited press coverage. Nearly three-in-ten Americans ( 31 % ) followed news about the war very closely and 20 % listed Iraq as their most closely followed story for the week. News coverage of Iraq focused primarily on events on the ground, while the policy debate took a back seat. In previous weeks, public interest in Iraq has fallen 43 percentage points.
While a majority of Americans ( 60 % ) say society has gone too far in accepting transgender people, there are sharp partisan differences when it comes to how accepting society is of people who are transgender. Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 63 % ) are roughly three times as likely as Republicans and Republican leaners ( 27 % ) to say that society has too little to accept a transgender person.
The survey finds that a wide majority of Americans ( 60 % ) say it is either very or somewhat bad that society looks up to masculine men. Fewer ( 37 % ) think society doesn't favor men enough, while 60 % say it's mostly good. The views among Republicans are deeply divided along partisan lines. For example, 60 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say it paled in comparison with the shares of Democrats and Democratic leaners who say this.
While men in this country are highly religious, they are not as religious as black women. In a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2016, 70 % of black men – and 72 % of Hispanic men – said they pray daily – are at least somewhat religious – compared with 58 % of white men. Similarly, about eight-in-ten white men ( 78 % ) and a quarter of black women ( 26 % ) were highly religious.
Many Germans see the United States as a top foreign policy partner ; fewer Americans feel the same way about Germany. When asked which countries are their most important partners in global affairs, Germans name France more than any other country, but the U.S. is in the second spot. More than a quarter of Germans ( 23 % ) name France as one of their top two partners, while 12 % name the United Kingdom. Still, Germany is no longer among the top five nations cited by Americans.
In 2016, 42 % of mothers – more than fathers – said they had taken a significant amount of time off from work for family or medical reasons because of the coronavirus outbreak, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of National Time Use Survey data. This figure – and the share of mothers who say they have taken time off to Quit their job – is nearly double the share among fathers who say the same. Only about one-in-ten fathers ( 9 % ) said they have given a lot of thought to how to replace their job.
About seven-in-ten Hispanic voters ( 71 % ) say it really matters who wins in congressional elections, compared with about a quarter of white voters ( 24 % ) who say the same. The share of Black voters ( 75 % ) is higher than the share of white Democratic voters ( 67 % ).
Around one-in-seven U.S. adults ( 15 % ) say fathers shouldn't be able to take any leave from work following the birth or adoption of a child, while 15 % say this should be the right decision. Workers who work in the home or care for a family member with a serious health condition are more likely than those who work for pay to say the wrong decision : 15 % vs. 15 %. On the other hand, 15 % of fathers say the best decision for workers to take time off is to leave the work or house to care for themselves and a minor child, and 15 %
A median of 56 % across the nations polled say the U.S. respects the personal freedoms of its people, while 36 % say it does not. Majorities hold this view in Russia and China.
The disparate trends in the jobs recovery from 2009 to 2011 reflect the rapidly changing demographics of the American workforce. Although the growth in jobs was more modest among men and women than among women, it merely kept pace with the growth that occurred across demographic groups. The share of women employed more than men in the first quarter of each year ( Figure 3 ) was 3.5 %. The gender gap in Employment was relatively small during the same period, but it was substantial nonetheless : Only 6.1 % of women were employed in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with 3.8 % of men.
About four-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 ( 41 % ) have given their own wishes for medical treatment at least some thought to this, up from just 10 % in 1990. A third ( 35 % ) say they have put their wishes in writing. At the same time, 35 % of adults ages 30 to 49 and 34 % of those 50 to 64 think it is a good idea to give medical treatment to someone they may disagree with.
Americans and Germans have quite different opinions about the benefits of the TTIP agreement. Almost two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) support the agreement, while only 23 % of Germans oppose it. A quarter of Germans ( 25 % ) and 11 % of Americans support the proposal.
The pattern plays out in reverse when it comes to the use of positive words or phrase. Clinton and Trump supporters are roughly equally likely to use a positive word to describe their evaluation of the candidates. About one-in-five ( 21 % ) positive words like `` Clinton '' or `` Trump '' are used to describe Clinton, while 6 % of Trump supporters say the same.
In the Texting Emerging countries surveyed, a median of 94 % of cell phone owners say they regularly send text messages. The highest percentage of text messaging users in these countries are in Mexico ( 91 % ), 5 % in Brazil ( 82 % ) and 4 % in Venezuela ( 3 % ).
These findings are based on the most recent installment of the weekly News Interest Index, an ongoing project of the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press. The index, building on the Center's longstanding research into public attentiveness to major news stories, examines news interest as it relates to the news media's agenda. The weekly survey is conducted in conjunction with The Project for Excellence in Journalism's News Coverage Index, which monitors the news reported by major newspaper, television, radio and online news outlets on an ongoing basis. In the latest week, data relating to news coverage was collected from Nov. 11 - 14 and
Western states account for the most immigrants in the U.S. ( 23 % ). In fact, the West is home to the largest number of immigrants, with 25 % of immigrants in a row representing the South. About one-in-ten immigrants ( 31 % ) live in the Northeast, including 13 % who live in states that have no immigration system.
In a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted in mid-2016, about one-in-five Lebanese ( 23 % ), Jordanians ( 20 % ) and Israelis ( 11 % ) said that MBS is a good influence on the way things are going in their country. Only a third in Tunisia and Turkey said the same.
Hillary Clinton's job as secretary of state is viewed very favorably by the public. Overall, 67 % approve of her job as Secretary of State ; 25 % disapprove ; 8 % do not offer an opinion.
In many countries surveyed, the public sees their economy in a negative light. Roughly six-in-ten or more in Canada ( 68 % ), the U.S. ( 62 % ) and Sweden ( 61 % ) see their economy as somewhat or very weak. Just 30 % in the Netherlands and 23 % in Germany see their economic situation as very good.
DACA enrollees are ages 25 and younger. Among the estimated 1.5 million unauthorized immigrants who are eligible, the median age is 30, while the typical young adult ( 9.3 % ) is 16. About half ( 53 % ) of DACA enrollees ages 16 to 25 are ages 21 to 25, while 37 % are ages 30 to 49. The remainder is either from unmarried ( 37 % ), young ( 24 % ) or married ( 15 % ) countries. Only about 1 % of the current unauthorized immigrant population is from Mexico.
Most Americans think scientists should help make food policy ; fewer think food industry leaders should have a major policymaking role. Despite mixed assessments of scientists working on GM food issues, six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 60 % ) say scientists should have at least some say in making decisions about policy issues related to GM foods and 28 % say they should have no role. Similar shares of Americans say that small farms owners and the general public should have major roles in GM food policy. A smaller share of Americans says that food industry leadership ( 42 % ) or elected officials ( 24 % ) should have some role in policy
Overall, 24.3 million immigrants ages 25 and older had the highest education levels in 2016, the highest number of any racial or ethnic group, according to the Census Bureau's 2016 American Community Survey. That's nearly double the number of immigrants ages 16 and older who had the same high school diploma or less in 2016.
Turks have high opinions of the U.S. and President Obama. In a spring 2015 Pew Research Center survey, a median of 70 % in Turkey approved of the way things are going in Saudi Arabia, the United States, China and Russia. But views of the other major Middle Eastern powers were much more negative. A median of only 21 % expressed confidence in President Obama to do the right thing regarding world affairs, while 70 % held this view in Turkey.
The share of new arrivals who are Asian has been increasing steadily for at least the past decade, according to Pew Research Center projections. This has been especially true of Hispanic arrivals since 2000, when 22.5 % of Hispanic immigrants were born in the U.S. The share of Asian immigrants who have arrived from another country has been growing at a similar rate since 2000 ( though by a smaller margin ). Among new arrivals, the Asian share has increased from 22.3 % in 2017 to 44.4 % in 2018.
These are among the findings of the weekly News Interest Index, an ongoing project of the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press. The index, building on the Center's longstanding research into public attentiveness to major news stories, examines news stories as it relates to the news media's agenda. The weekly survey is conducted in conjunction with The Project for Excellence in Journalism's News Coverage Index, which monitors the news reported by major newspaper, television, radio and online news outlets on an ongoing basis. In the most recent week, there were 696 stories related to the presidential campaign – more than the number of stories
Voters are less likely to say they have ever contributed money to a political candidate or group running for office ( 35 % ) or posted comments on political issues online ( 27 % ). But about two-thirds ( 67 % ) of those who have voted in a recent election have done so – a lower share than for any other political activity. Participating in political events is relatively low : Only about one-in-five ( 21 % ) report having helped a political organiza tion or group run for office in the past year.
The new Republican-led Congress is drawing harsh reviews from the public – including most Republicans. Just 23 % of Americans say congressional Republicans are keeping the promises they made during last fall's campaign, while 65 % say they are not.
Many Americans are uncomfortable with clergy endorsing candidates for the 2016 presidential election. Roughly three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 77 % ) say clergy should not be obligated to support candidates running for the election, while only 6 % say they should support one of the candidate's supporters. And roughly six-in-ten ( 62 % ) think only religious leaders, not the candidates themselves, should be able to support the candidate.
Older Americans are more likely to know their neighbors than younger ones. Roughly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) of those ages 65 and older and 57 % of those 50 to 64 say they know their own neighbors by birth. By comparison, just 15 % of adults ages 18 to 29 say the same, and a majority of those 30 to 49 ( 59 % ) do.
Roughly seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 68 % ) who have been laid off or lost their job because of the coronavirus outbreak say that states will lift restrictions onessential workers too quickly. Fewer ( 32 % ) say they are concerned that they or someone in their household will lose their job or take a cut in pay. When asked about their own worries about the impact of COVID-19 on their own jobs or wages, about two-thirds ( 69 % ) of adults who have experienced both a pay cut and job loss say the same. By comparison, about three-in
Plastic surgery has since expanded from treatments aimed mainly at repairing damage to include elective changes like liposuction or tummy tucks. Overall, 54 % say that cosmetic surgery is taking medical technology too far, while 34 % say it is taking technology more far. However, the public is divided over the potential benefits of cosmetic surgery : 54 % believe that it leads to more benefits than costs, while 44 % believe it does not.
Only about one-in-five black Americans express confidence in the Secret Service's ability to improve security around the country, compared with 43 % of whites and 47 % of Hispanics.
Roughly seven-in-ten Latino adults ( 73 % ) say that defending the country from future terrorist attacks should be a top priority for President Donald Trump and Congress – making this one of the most frequently cited priorities for the U.S. – along with improving the educational system and strengthening the economy.
With the media and the public so highly focused on the economy and the presidential campaign last week, other news stories attracted relatively little attention. While 29 % of the public say they followed news about the current situation in Iraq very closely, only 2 % listed this as the single news story they were following more closely than any other. The media devoted 1 % of its overall coverage to events in Iraq.
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center and USA TODAY, conducted Dec. 3 - 8 among 2,001 adults, finds that 55 % of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters expect the GOP to do better than in recent elections, compared with just 29 % who say it will do worse. Democrats and Democratic leaners are also more confident than Republicans in their party's ability to do the right thing in the November elections : 64 % say this compared with 43 % who said this in December 2012, 64 % in the 2010 election and 43 % in 2005. At this point in the 2006 election, Democrats were highly
Many Nigerians are dissatisfied with the way their democracy is working in their country. More than six-in-ten ( 60 % ) say they are satisfied with the state of the nation's democracy, but a 39 % majority is not satisfied. This finding is consistent with previous Pew Research Center surveys, in which 59 % of Nigerians were dissatisfied with their democracy ; only 39 % were satisfied.
In much of Eastern Europe, there is now greater acceptance of post-communist political changes compared with Pulse of Europe surveys conducted by the then-Times Mirror Center for the People & the Press in 1991, as the Soviet Union was collapsing. Even so, the legacy of communism is apparent in the attitudes of many Eastern European publics. Only about half of those in Ukraine and Russia approve of the political changes that have occurred since the collapse of the USSR.
As part of a larger survey to understand the health risks and benefits of artificial ingredients in the foods we regularly eat, a Pew Research Center survey conducted this spring found that 44 % of U.S. adults believe they should limit their consumption of artificial additives such as artificial colors or flavoring. An even larger share of Americans ( 60 % ) say they should strictly limit their use of these additives. The survey also found that about four-in-ten Americans ( 44 % ) believe that artificial colors make them less safe to eat, and that they are at least somewhat likely to use them as a replacement for their meat.
About three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 73 % ) who say they frequently encounter immigrants who speak little English are bothered by this type of language. By comparison, a majority of those who have heard at least a little about immigration in the past few years ( 60 % ) say the same, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in June and July.
The number of recent arrivals from regions other than Mexico also declined, due in large part to an increase in recent arrivals. So as Mexicans became a shrinking share of recent immigrants, the share of all unauthorized immigrants who had arrived from Asia within the previous five years increased from 4 % in 2007 to 22 % in 2017. The share from the rest of the world ( other than Asia, Central America and Mexico ) rose to more than four times as many recent arrivals as Mexicans, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey. In all other countries, more than a quarter of
The political divide in Canada is much wider than for the other regions of the country. Across the 10 Canada surveyed, a majority ( 68 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the U.S. is more conservative than it was two years ago ; only 45 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say the same.
There is a gender gap in Nominating minorities. Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of women ages 40 and older say they would vote for the Republican Party if the GOP didn't pursue more elections for racial and ethnic minorities. In contrast, just 30 % of men say such a change would be better for the party.
The most commonly used platform in Lebanon, according to a recent Pew Research Center survey, is WhatsApp. Around six-in-ten Lebanese ( 61 % ) say they use the platform. The highest-used platforms in Lebanon are Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Instagram.
Overall, 39 % say it has contributed a lot to encouraging interest in science, 35 % say the same about NASA's space program, while 22 % think it has done some for feelings or pride and patriotism. Nearly as many ( 38 % ) say the space program has contributed not much or nothing to scientific advances that all Americans can use.
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center, conducted Jan. 27-March 2 among 1,004 adults, finds that economic issues are the most important issues to voters this year ; 74 % say they would vote for Obama on the economic issues that are most important to their vote, up 17 points from December.
About a third of Americans ( 32 % ) say the outbreak has had a mostly negative effect on the news industry, while 19 % say it has not had much of an effect. Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are about evenly divided in their sense of how the pandemic has made money.
About two-in-ten ( 9 % ) of the public say they very closely followed news about the Stanley Cup debate between Bill Clinton and George W. Bush ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely. The debate over the same topic accounted for 2 % of coverage.
In most countries surveyed, majorities or pluralities say cyberattacks likely will damage public infrastructure like power grids or internet systems. And when asked about five specific areas where cyberattacks are likely to damage public resources, people are split along partisan lines. One area where the U.S. is most likely to encounter cyberattacks is that it is likely that cyberattacks on public infrastructure such as roads, bridges and public buildings. More than eight-in-ten or more in most countries say this, including 90 % of Democrats and 59 % of Republicans who say this.
Among Latino registered voters, support for Latino candidates has increased significantly since the 2008 primaries, according to a Pew Research Center survey of Latino adults. About three-quarters ( 76 % ) have a favorable opinion of Latino President Barack Obama, while a majority ( 44 % ) holds an unfavorable view of the former Secretary of State. In 2008, a similar increase in support was registered for Republican candidates, by 47 % to 44 %. However, views of Sen. John McCain are more negative today than they were in 2008 ( Figure 3 ).
More broadly, a growing share of Americans say the increasing use of online tools has been a good thing for society than a bad thing ( 15 % in 2018, up from 8 % in 2014 ). At the same time, the share who see the increasing internet use as good for society has been downsized – 7 % say the decline in internet use has been neither good nor bad, compared with 8 % who said the same in 2014.
Still, some social media users feel ambivalent about seeing political content on these sites. About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they feel worn out by the political content they see on social media, compared with just 15 % of users who like seeing a mix of good and bad content. Social media users who use these sites are also more likely than those who don't to feel frustrated by political content ( 46 % vs. 37 % ).
The Muslim population in Saudi Arabia is nearly identical to the makeup of the nation's overall Muslim population ( including a majority Muslim population ). However, the age profile of the Saudi Muslim population has changed substantially in recent years. Saudi Arabia's median Muslim population is mostly younger than in the U.S., increasing from 20 % in 2000 to 34 % in 2015.
There are other challenges. For example, 28 % of adults with a smartphone say they have often or occasionally experienced difficulties navigating online employment resources because they do not have a smartphone to enable them to read and read content. More than half ( 55 % ) of those who have filed required files or supporting docs for the past year say they frequently or occasionally encounter this problem.
A median of 78 % across the 25 countries polled say the press should be able to publish information as long as it does so `` from large political protests in four countries, '' while a median of 35 % say the same about economic issues that might destabilize the country. People are less hopeful about the press's ability to publish key information when it comes to national security issues. Across a range of issues, few think the press is able to protect key information.
Just over half of Hispanic homeowners say they worry `` a lot '' or `` some '' that their home could end up in foreclosure, according to a recent Pew Research Center survey. About half ( 54 % ) say the same about their own home's value. By comparison, just 15 % of U.S.-born Hispanics and 17 % of foreign-born Hispanics say they worried at least some about their home being in foreclosure.
There is also a wide gap in these views across racial and ethnic groups. Among those in STEM fields, for example, 68 % of black STEM workers say that their employer does not pay enough attention to increasing racial, ethnic and racial diversity. That compares with 37 % of white workers who say the same and just 11 % of Hispanic workers.
Reporters for niche outlets now fill more seats in the Senate press gallery than do journalists who work for daily newspapers. The face of the Washington press corps has changed markedly in recent years, transformed by this increase in the number of journalists working for `` niche '' publications and digital startups.
The economic well-being of Luxembourg is similar to that of the U.S. ( $ 35,769 ), where households in the highest income tier earn more than those in the lowest income tier. In fact, the highest-income tier of households in Luxembourg earned $ 5,848 in 2010, compared with $ 7,927 among those in all Western European countries surveyed. The Luxembourg economy ranks second in the share of upper-income households ( with a median income of $ 25,000 in 2010 ), and fifth in the total income ( $ 44,600 ).
Obama's travel itinerary will take him to three European countries where he is extremely popular : France, Germany and Britain. In France, 84 % of those following the U.S. presidential race say they have confidence in Obama to do the right thing in world affairs ; only a third, however, are confident in McCain. The numbers are almost identical in Germany ( 82 % confidence in McCain, 33 % in Obama ). The gap between the two candidates is slightly less pronounced in Britain, although it is still a staggering 30 percentage points — 74 % have confidence In Obama, 44 % in Romney. Obama also receives higher
In the new survey, we also find that substantial majorities in most countries have heard or read nothing at all about the coronavirus pandemic and have not INTERTARIZED it. Among the countries we surveyed, the spread of the virus is the top story, with more than eight-in-ten in the U.S. ( 83 % ) and Canada ( 84 % ) expressing concern. But that isn't the case everywhere. The exception is Pakistan, where about two-thirds ( 65 % ) of the population has not heard or reads a book or newspaper in the past year.
Chinese President Xi Jinping is visiting France, Italy and Monaco this week to strengthen relations with potential European investment partners, though he does so at a time when EU countries lack confidence in him and do the right thing regarding world affairs. According to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in spring 2015, about seven-in-ten or more people in Nigeria, Kenya, South Africa and the U.S. express confidence in Xi's leadership on the global stage.
In the U.S., 72 % say government schools and organizations are all seen as sharing responsibility for preparing the American workforce for the future. By contrast, just six-in-ten say the same in Greece ( 62 % ), Italy ( 59 % ) and Hungary ( 53 % ).
Americans have become less accepting of homosexuality as a moral issue in recent years. Just 10 % of Americans surveyed in the fall of 2006 say homosexuality was morally acceptable, up from 35 % who said the same in 2006. When it comes to morality, a majority of Americans ( 50 % ) now see homosexuality as morally acceptable and 35 % say it is morally acceptable.
While majorities of both men and women say Trump has little or no respect for women ( 82 % of women and 65 % of men ), those who identify as Republican men ( 63 % each ) are more likely to say Trump does not respect women at all.
Among Twitter users ages 65 and older, roughly one-quarter ( 23 % ) of tweets that mention national politics mention Trump. A similar share ( 20 % ) mention Biden as a major factor in a tweet conversation focused on national politics.
Few Americans in rural areas are likely to have high-speed internet at home. Only 6 % of rural adults say they have broadband at home, compared with 90 % of adults in other areas of the country. They are also less likely to say they Subscribe to home broadband services ( 70 % vs. 67 % ).
Democrats hold a four-point lead ( 52 % to 36 % ) in leaned party identification among those who have graduated from college, up from just a four point gap seen as recently as 2010 ( 48 % to 44 % ). Much of this advantage has come among adults with post-graduate experience ; currently, 56 % lean Democratic while just 36 % lean Republican. Among those who had received a college degree but have no post-grad experience, the gap is much narrower : 48 % identify as Democrats or lean Democratic, while 43 % affiliate with the GOP or lean Republican ). Back to top
Currently, 44 % of voters say they are satisfied with the way things are going in the Democratic Party, while 42 % are not too or not at all satisfied. That is little changed over the course of 2012, when registered voters were less than satisfied with their party's presidential nominee.
Indians are more likely than their Western counterparts to agree that trade is good for their country. More than seven-in-ten Indians ( 68 % ) say trade creates jobs, compared with only 11 % who say it does not have an impact on the economy. Similarly, a median of 53 % across the 14 emerging markets surveyed say trade increases jobs and 37 % say it decreases wages.
Since 2005, the number of investment dollars from China has increased by 113 %, the most since the end of World War II. This has meant that six European countries, as well as Germany, France, the Netherlands and Sweden, have received more than $ 25 billion in investment from China.
Only among the Silent generation did presidents in office before Kennedy receive a significant number of mentions. But even among this older group, Clinton and Reagan were essentially tied for the top positions. Reagan was cited by 36 % and Clinton by 35 % as best or second-best. Kennedy was mentioned by 29 %, Dwight D. Eisenhower by 17 %, and Harry S Truman and Franklin D. Roosevelt were named by 11 % and 12 %, respectively. Read more
Nearly eight-in-ten Americans ( 79 % ) say they trust television news organizations – including 23 % who say they strongly trust them –. Among those who trust other news outlets, the vast majority ( 84 % ) says they trust ABC.
Layoffs continue at the largest U.S. digital-native news outlets, CNN, Fox News and MSNBC. In 2017, roughly one-fifth of these organizations – and around a third of all journalists – said they were laid off. That's the largest percentage decline for any outlet, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of recently released data from the Center's Internet & American Life Project. TheLayoff story is just the second part of a broader decline that has unfolded at some of the largest online news outlets. In the first quarter of 2018, roughly five-in-ten outlets ( 41 % ) said
Scientists'confidence has increased since 2016, when a Pew Research Center survey found the majority of U.S. adults ( 55 % ) said they were `` very confident '' that scientists would act in the public interest. In contrast, three-quarters of Americans expressed little confidence in scientists in the same way in 2016.
About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) Republican registered voters say the Republican Party represents them very or somewhat negatively on immigration. A similar share ( 55 % ) says the GOP represents them fairly. In addition, 55 % say the party is not doing a good job representing them. In a survey conducted in June, just 30 % of GOP voters said the party represented them well on this issue. Among GOP leaners, views on immigration are more mixed : 55 % support a path to legal status for the GOP, while 45 % say it represents them not much. When it comes to allowing them to stay in the U
Estimated spending by newly enrolled foreign students at U.S. colleges and universities increased by about 184 % from 2008 to 2016. The top places of origin for foreign students during this time include China ( 108,000 ), South Korea ( 278,800 ), and Saudi Arabia ( 275,900 ). In addition, foreign students from China spent an estimated $ 15.5 billion on college in 2016, compared with $ 5.9 billion in 2008 and $ 7.8 billion in 2007. ( Note that much of this growth has happened in other countries. )
More than eight-in-ten Russians ( 84 % ) give China high marks, as does a median of 59 % in the U.S. and 60 % of China. But views of the Asian superpower are more mixed. In South Korea, 84 % of the public has a favorable view of China, while nearly as many ( 45 % ) hold an unfavorable view.
The public's views of a system in which a strong leader can make decisions would be a way of governing the four countries would be decidedly negative. Only about a quarter of Americans ( 26 % ) support a system where the military rules the country – as opposed to a system rigged against the wealthy and powerful. And only 11 % of the public say allowing a strong president to make decisions on major national issues would be appropriate.
About one-in-four ( 27 % ) asylum seekers from Haiti, Nigeria and Turkey drove much of the increase in the number of applications in 2017. The vast majority of these applications were referred to Canada's Immigration and Refugee Board for review in 2016 and 2017. Applications from Turkey accounted for more than half ( 54 % ) of all asylum applications made in 2017, the highest number for any year since data on self-reported refugees became publicly available in 2002.
Similarly, Democrats are far more likely than Republicans to say social media help give a voice to underrepresented groups ( 80 % vs. 55 % ). However, both parties agree that social media are a distraction from important issues, while Republicans are more likely to say these sites help make people think they are difference making a difference ( 75 % of Democrats say this vs. 52 % of Republicans ).
A median of 62 % across the eight NATO nations surveyed say their country should use military force to defend a fellow NATO country, even if Russia got into a serious military conflict with one of its allies. Only about a quarter across these countries ( 23 % ) take the opposite view. And while 62 % of Germans and 53 % of Italians say their countries should defend a NATO ally in the event of a potential conflict with Russia, only 43 % of people in the other countries agree.
Half of Americans see the coronavirus as harming China's global influence. This is a stark contrast to views about the U.S. pandemic and how China has handled the outbreak. In both countries, more Americans say China has a role on the world stage than it did a decade ago – but the share of Americans who see China as harming America's influence has fallen to 41 %.
Tea Party Republicans have a favorable opinion of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ), the Defense Department, and the CIA. Among other federal agencies asked about in a national survey by Pew Research Center, 74 % of Tea Party Republicans express a favorable view of the CDC and 74 % have a positive view of CIA. Support for the CIA is much higher among conservative Republicans at the GOP nomination level than among moderates and liberals at the Democratic Party.
Many white evangelical Protestants think gene editing for healthy babies is no different than other ways we try to be better off. About two-thirds ( 67 % ) of white evangelicals say gene editing is just another way to better themselves. By contrast, just a third of white mainline Protestants ( 31 % ) and nearly half of Catholics ( 47 % ) say it is no more different than any other ways they try to improve themselves.
About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of leave takers say they spent their time on their savings ( 50 % ), set aside money from family or friends ( 45 % ) or taking on debt ( 23 % ) to pay back their lost wages or salary. At the same time, about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they put money aside for something else they could use.
Demographic differences are also evident when it comes to people's profile pictures. A majority of those who have completed college ( 55 % ) say they changed their picture to appear to be a different person from the one before the event, compared with 14 % of those with a high school diploma or less.
Unauthorized immigrants accounted for nearly a quarter ( 27 % ) of workers in the U.S. food industry, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data from the 2018 - 2017 American Community Survey. In the agriculture sector, unauthorized immigrants account for about four-in-ten workers ( 42 % ) in agriculture jobs and 18 % of food production workers.
Married adults are a bit more likely than married adults to have a positive view of how things are going in their relationship. About nine-in-ten married or living with a partner ( 94 % ) say the marriage is going very or fairly well, while 41 % of married adults say the same. Still, married adults are more likely to say the relationship is going not too well or not at all well ( 47 % vs. 39 % ). The share of married Americans who say the situation is going poorly is up 10 points since October 2019, when the Center last asked this question, while the share of partnered adults
Even though the term `` lame duck '' has been in place since it was first enacted in 1940, the public has heard more about the legislative sessions than it deserves. In 2008, the number of days that Congress was supposed to pass legislation was down from the previous year ( 21 – 21 ), when 70 % of the public thought Congress should pass a law that would ban new austerity measures, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Congressional Research Service. The new Congress has also heard more from members of both parties than did so in the past. As was the case in both parties, members of the House and
More broadly, a majority ( 55 % ) of those with a favorable opinion of the KMT are more likely to support closer ties with mainland China than those with an unfavorable view of the party. However, less education is associated with more positive views toward China : By a 55 % -35 % margin, more KMT supporters say they want China to increase its relationship with the U.S. than to maintain current ties with the mainland ( 43 % vs. 22 % ). Adults ages 50 and older are also more likely than those under age 30 to express more support for deepening ties with China. For example, 62 %
The new survey, conducted June 16 - 22 among 1,004 Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters, finds that Donald Trump receives more negative ratings among Republican than Democratic members. Nearly half of Republicans ( 49 % ) view Trump as a POSITIVE candidate, while just 11 % view him as a positive and 12 % say he is unfavorably ( 35 % do not offer a rating ). However, Republicans who lean toward the Republican Party are far more likely than Democrats to give Trump positive ratings ( 60 % vs. 29 % ).
At a time when Japan's population is expected to triple to 72.5 million by mid-century, the Japanese public is divided over the age profile of Japan : 46 % are ages 65 and older, while 40 % are 60 and older. A further 36 % are young adults, similar to the 36 % who were born in Japan in 2050.
Not only do lower-income households fare better overall economically, households headed by less-educated adults have experienced the largest gains in income since the survey began, according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of the survey data. In 2017, household headed by those with a high school diploma or less had the largest gain of $ 8,700 compared with those headed by someone with some college education. Those with a bachelor's degree or higher had a smaller gain of about 600,000 ( +109,000 ), compared with about 400,000 of those without a professional or doctoral degree.
About a third ( 34 % ) followed news about swine flu and its vaccine very closely, while 8 % say swine Flu was their top story of the week. News coverage was comparatively modest, filling just 2 % of the newshole, according to PEJ.
An estimated 912,000 Hispanics in the United States were Hispanic, making up 2 % of the total Hispanic population in 2004, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey. At the same time, the Hispanic population has grown to a nearly 2.4 millionfold increase from 2002 to 2004, making it the country's fastest-growing Hispanic-origin group.
As automation looms and more and more jobs are being shaped to accommodate the tech-saturated `` knowledge economy, '' about half of U.S. adults ( 52 % ) say theyn't pursue science degrees because of the difficulty of the subjects. STEM graduates are more evenly divided on the same reason : 46 % say they'ren't pursuing the degree because they want to learn new skills, while nearly as many ( 46 % ) cite a variety of reasons for not pursuing science degrees.
Seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 82 % ) say abortion should be legal in all or most cases, as do 62 % of Republicans and Republican leaners. A slim majority of Republicans/leaning independents ( 62 % ) and a majority of those who lean to the GOP say the same.
Mobile advertising revenue has jumped 25 % in 2018 across all types of digital outlets, not just news, according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of recently released data from the U.S. Census Bureau. Overall, mobile advertising spending accounted for more than half ( 53 % ) of all digital advertising spending in 2018, up from just 11 % in 2013.
An estimated 38.4 million Hispanics of Puerto Rican origin lived in the United States in 2017, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey. Puerto Ricans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics oferto Rican origin ; this includes immigrants from Puerto Rico and those who trace their family ancestry to Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico is the 10th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the Washington, D.C., metro area, and the District of Columbia. Since 2000, the Puerto Rican-origin population has increased 16 %, growing from 20
Among Democrats, the vast majority of college graduates ( 89 % ) think the tariffs will be bad for the U.S., while just 21 % say they will be good for the country. The share of Democrats with a college degree ( 70 % ) who say tariffs will negatively affect the country is much higher than the share of those who have not completed college ( 20 % ).
In the aftermath of the deadly shooting at a high school in Parkland, Florida, a majority of American teens say they are very or somewhat worried about the possibility of a shooting happening at their school – and most parents of teens share that concern, according to new Pew Research Center surveys of teens ages 13 to 17 and parents with children in the same age range. Overall, 57 % of teens are worried about a shooting could happen at their high school, with one-in-four saying they are not too worried about this. About three-quarters of black teens ( 73 % ) and a similar share of Hispanic teens ( 57
This pattern is especially pronounced when it comes to the level of frequency of cell phone calls conducted by unknown numbers. Only 19 % of Americans generally would answer a phone to see who it is ; another 14 % would not answer and ignore a voicemail if one is left. In addition, only around a quarter of U.S. adults ( 23 % ) would generally answer a cell phone if left.
Both the American Trends Panel and the Pew Research Center survey say that the U.S. `` stands above all other countries in the world '' ( 23 % ) and that it is `` one of the greatest countries, along with some others '' ( 42 % ). In both cases, these views are little changed over the past few years.
Most people agree it is important for women to have the same rights as men in their country. Across the 10 European countries surveyed, a median of 88 % hold this view, including nearly nine-in-ten in Sweden, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Greece, Spain, the UK and Hungary.
When asked whether the Pakistani army should be used to fight extremist groups in Federally Administered Tribal Areas ( FATA ) or the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region ( formerly the North-West Frontier Province ), a majority of the public ( 58 % ) says yes. The question is not asked in the new poll, however, as many Pakistanis support using the military to fight extremists in the area.
A year earlier, the Pew Research Center found that 61 % of the French public said they had heard a lot about anti-Semitic acts happening to people and property in France, up from 39 % in 2011. Although the specific reasons people have heard this about Jews may vary, a majority ( 58 % ) of those who have heard at least a little about Jews are aware of the incidents.
White evangelical Protestant voters who attend church at least weekly overwhelmingly support Ted Cruz ( 212 % ), while half of non-frequent attenders favor Trump ( 47 % ). Among Trump supporters, three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say they attend church less often than weekly, while 12 % say they more often support Trump.
As the nation's debt ceiling debate ramps up, nearly as many say President Donald Trump is striking the right balance in the Middle East as said the same about the president in 2010. Just 21 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say Trump is taking the right approach to the situation in the region. As was the case in 2010, a much larger share of Republicans ( 66 % ) than Democrats ( 21 % ) felt Trump was striking the wrong balance.
In the first year of 2013, the total number of students enrolled in pre-K grade ( 35,368 ) increased by 76,000 compared with the 25,368 who enrolled in the 8th grade.
The horrific nature of mass shootings, which are rare and account for a very small share of all homicides, always rivet public attention. But because this one occurred in the U.S., it drew attention again to rising murder rates. The year 2012, which saw both the Aurora, Colo., and Newtown, Conn., massacres, had by far the highest murder rates of any year since the onset of the Great Recession.
Americans and Germans have different views about what the most important factor should be in U.S.-German relations. Roughly half of Americans ( 52 % ) say the biggest factor a person can use is his or her party's presidential candidate, while about a third ( 32 % ) choose the CDU/CSU or SPD. Germans, by contrast, are much more likely to say that relations with their country are at least somewhat important.
At a time when many Americans are being harassed by online privacy intrusions, our survey found that 7 % of internet users were aware of online privacy problems ; another 18 % said they had experienced some kind of problem such as spam, spyware and hackers. Since we first began asking about online privacy in 2013, the number of online adults who have experienced these issues has increased from 18 % to 25 %. Online privacy users who have also experienced spyware are more likely than those who have not to report having paid attention to online privacy issues.
The biggest gap between high religious commitment and low religious commitment is over whether these enhancements are compatible with nature or are not. For example, people who are high in religious commitment ( who seldom pray or attend religious services and say they are no different than other ways we try to be better ) are much more likely to consider gene editing to give a healthy baby a much reduced disease risk ( 54 % vs. 37 % ) than to say that the same about synthetic blood substitutes for much improved speed, strength and stamina ( 52 % vs. 36 % ).
However, non-practicing Christians in Europe are also more likely than Christians in the U.S. to believe in God or in the Bible, as described in a recent Pew Research Center survey. For example, a median of 51 % in the 12 countries surveyed say they Believe in God, but not necessarily as described by the Bible. This includes about three-quarters ( 77 % ) of non-bloggers who say they are religiously unaffiliated – a category that includes people who do not identify with any religion at all – but which includes evangelical Protestants, agnostics and those who describe themselves as `` nothing in particular
More broadly, the survey finds that a sizable majority of Americans ( 59 % ) say the legacy of slavery affects black Americans'position in American society today. But the share of U.S. adults who say slavery impacts black people is higher today than it was in the past. About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) Black adults say the same, while just 17 % say black people are more likely to feel this way than say there is no difference. Among racial and ethnic groups, the gap in views of the impact of slavery on black people in society is wider than for other groups. For example, while 59
In most countries surveyed, Saudi Arabia's influence is mentioned not too much or no influence, but rather it is seen as a good influence. In Jordan, where a large majority of the public says Saudi Arabia has a great deal or fair amount of influence, only 44 % say the same about Saudi influence in the Middle East.
Among the top five nations with which the U.S. runs a trade deficit, China's $ 543 per capita trade deficit is the largest among the three biggest trading partners, followed by Germany ( $ 3,375 ), Japan ( $ 4,543 ) and Mexico ( $ 7,815 ).
Majorities of Republicans and Republican leaners say Trump is too impulsive toward politics ( 66 % ) and that he is not doing enough to make it work for him ( 57 % ). By contrast, a majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 86 % ) think Trump is not impulsive enough.
Our October survey revealed a wide gulf in how Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton supporters viewed the country. It found Donald Trump supporters overwhelmingly believed that life in America is worse than it was 50 years ago `` for people like them, '' while most Hillary Clinton backers took the opposite view, saying life is about as easy for them personally. The candidates'supporters also differed in their expectations for the nation's future. Trump backers were broadly pessimistic, while Clinton supporters had mixed assessments. About half ( 49 % ) believed America hasn't changed much over the past half-century, while 15 % said it has stayed about the same and
While STEM education is a key focus for many schools, just 29 % of Americans say the same about STEM education. Roughly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) of U.S. adults say STEM education should be a separate focus from science and technology, while 29 % say it should be for students.
Chinese President Xi Jinping is viewed negatively by people in many countries around the world. A median of 60 % in the U.S. and 58 % in Latin America say they have no confidence in Xi to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs. In sub-Saharan Africa, as well as in the Middle East and Asia, majorities or pluralities express little confidence in the Chinese leader.
The U.S. is home to the largest Muslim population in the world, and it is the world's second-largest exporter by value. Saudi Arabia is the one-largest Muslim nation in the Middle East and has the largest number of Muslim populations of any region. A recent Pew Research Center survey found that Saudi Arabia ranks 16th in the list of most Muslim populations ( with a population of about 1 million ).
Americans are split on whether fact-checkers tend to favor one side when covering political and social issues – 50 % say this is the case, while nearly as many ( 48 % ) say they favor the other side. Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say this ( 69 % vs. 47 % ).
Women are more likely than men to say it is more important for people to feel safe online than to think offensive content online isn't taken seriously enough. Male adults are about twice as likely as female adults ( 72 % vs. 55 % ) to say too many offensive people online is too often excused as too often done. A separate gender gap exists in views about how offensive content is being excused online : 54 % of women say this is toooften excused, compared with 36 % of men.
Asked if they would like to use a term to describe Hispanics in the general public, about four-in-ten adults who have heard of Latinx describe it as a gender inclusive term ( 42 % ). About the same share ( 51 % ) say they would prefer to use the term `` Latino '' to describe the nation's Hispanic population. Smaller shares do so if they dislike or dislike the term because it describes a person's background.
When asked about the U.S. government's role in other nations'internal affairs, a majority of Russians say it is too intrusive. More than eight-in-ten ( 85 % ) say the administration is not intrusive enough, while a nearly equal percentage ( 62 % ) says the same about China.
Personal information is also more sensitive when it comes to the use of personal information online. Fully 70 % of Americans say they have written using their personal name to refer to someone who is not in a committed romantic relationship. By contrast, fewer than half ( 38 % ) of U.S. adults say the same about using their home address.
Puerto Ricans'reasons for leaving for the mainland varied by family and household income. About half ( 49 % ) of island-born Puerto Ricans who leave for the U.S. mainland cited jobs as the main reason they left, while 40 % cited a lack of jobs.
Over the course of more than 15 years and three presidential administrations, Americans have consistently said that defending the nation against terrorism should be a top policy priority for the White House and Congress, according to Pew Research Center surveys conducted since shortly after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. In January of this year, 73 % of U.S. adults said defending the country against future terrorist attacks should be an extremely important priority for President Donald Trump and Congress – making this one of the most frequently cited priorities, along with improving the educational system ( 72 % ) and strengthening the nation's economy ( 71 % ).
Continued support for the gun database has increased across all partisan groups. And the public is on balance in favor of making private gun sales and sales at gun shows subject to background checks. Fully 81 % support background checks for people who buy firearms at a gun show or from a private individual, while just 54 % oppose such a measure. More teachers and school officials support a ban on assault-style weapons ( 54 % favor it, 42 % oppose it ).
The most common way for teens to get involved with community blogs is by using them. Some 14 % of teens ages 13 - 17 who have seen or heard a lot about community blogs say they have read a lot or a little, and 11 % say the same about some friends who do. By comparison, just 5 % of non-Hispanic whites and 6 % of blacks go to a community blog. There are also differences by race and ethnicity in the use of community blogs.
In all six Western European countries surveyed, a median of 57 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases, compared with a regional median of just 42 % who say it should be illegal in both cases. The support for legal abortion is especially strong in Sweden ( 84 % ), Denmark ( 81 % ) and Finland ( 73 % ). Majorities in each of the other six countries surveyed also support legal abortion.
On the broader question of overall race relations in American society, the overwhelming majority ( 92 % ) of white officers say the U.S. has made the changes needed to give blacks equal rights with whites ; just 29 % of black officers agree. The general public is divided along racial lines on this question, too, but not as much as police officers : About six-in-ten whites ( 57 % ) want to see more changes to bring about equal rights for blacks, compared with just 44 % of blacks.
Social media users ages 18 to 49 are especially likely to check up on their ex-romantic partner on social media. About nine-in-ten 18 - 29-year-olds ( 91 % ) say they have used these sites to keep up with someone they used to date or be in a relationship with. That share is lower – though still a majority – among users ages 30 to 49 and falls sharply among those ages and 50 and older.
Blacks are also more open to police Searches : 63 % of blacks in the early 2000s did so, compared with 53 % of whites ages 40 to 59. At the same time, the percentage of blacks who say they have gone to police in the past 30 years has risen slightly, from 46 % in 2000 to 53 % today. About half of blacks ages 40 and older ( 48 % ) do so ; blacks ages 50 and older are about evenly split ( 46 % do so, 44 % do not go to police ).
About half ( 52 % ) of typical Latino adults attend college, compared with 55 % of white college graduates and 52 % of black college graduates. The differences are largely driven by differences in the size of the Latino share of foreign-born students.
In this analysis, full-time working Moms and Dads spend their time caring for their children. They spend about half of their time doing housework or housework ; half of this time is devoted to child care or child care. These differences are largely driven by the fact that mothers – whether caring for an adult or not – spend more time on child care and housework than do working mothers.
As the U.S. Supreme Court weighs the future of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program ( or DACA ), 89 % of Americans favor a law that would provide permanent legal status to immigrants who came to the country illegally as children, while 36 % are opposed. As with other immigration issues, some of the sharpest differences in these views are between Democrats and Republicans. While Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to favor granting legal status, Republicans and GOP leaners are more divided : 54 % favor granting permanent status while 44 % oppose it.
The survey finds that Trump is viewed more positively than Biden for compassion, honesty and being a good role model. Nearly half of voters ( 54 % ) say Biden is even-tempered, compared with just 15 % who say that about Trump – and a much smaller share ( 41 % ) who say Trump is honest. Biden is also viewed more favorably for being honest ( 31 % say that ) and being able to change the lives of ordinary people ( 24 % ).
At the same time, the number of corruption convictions across just five states ( and the District of Columbia ) reached more than 1 million in 2013, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Bureau of Justice Statistics. The corruption convictions in those five states were the highest of any racial or ethnic group, accounting for at least 20 % of the total.
Nearly three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 77 % ) said in a April survey that they talk about the coronavirus with other people almost all the time. Black adults were much more likely than white adults to say this ( 37 % vs. 32 % ). And while about four-in-ten adults in the same age group ( 39 % ) admitted to talking about COVID-19 all or most of the time, the share of black adults who did so was little changed compared with about a quarter of white adults ( 27 % ) who said the same.
Americans and Germans have starkly different opinions about the U.S.-German relationship. A large majority of Americans ( 85 % ) say the relationship is better with Germany than with China, while only 8 % of Germans say the same. Germans are also divided on Russia : 50 % say a close relationship with Russia is better, while 44 % say it is worse.
When it came to the role of government spending in the future, fully 74 % of Americans favored big government spending to help cover medical care, while just 26 % said they would be less likely to support such spending. The 1970s also saw a substantial increase in government spending as a good thing for the country compared with the 1930s. More than eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) favored federal spending to support a second national government program ; twice as many ( 73 % ) would prefer to expand the Social Security program.
Roughly half the public thinks major technology companies in the U.S. should be less regulation than they are now ( 49 % ), while nearly the same share ( 46 % ) thinks they should be treated about as fairly as they are currently. There are smaller partisan differences on this question. For example, Republicans who lucted May 29 not give an answer to this question are much more likely than Democrats and Democratic leaners to think major tech companies should be regulated more than they were a few years ago ( 57 % vs. 35 % ).
Even so, the 114th Congress remains one of the least legislatively productive in recent history. As of Monday, 165 Senate laws had been enacted since January 2017, including 199 in the House and 226 in the Senate, according to our analysis of biographical information from the Congressional Research Service, a biennial study of the Senate's agenda from the Pew Research Center's Project for Excellence in Journalism. In our regular assessments of Congress'legislative workload, we've cast a wide net regarding what makes a law law in Washington. ( For the past decade, the number of Senate sessions has stood at 625 – or
Those who have favorable opinions of right populist parties in Europe generally are more likely to have a negative opinion of these parties. Majorities of those who have a favorable opinion of the Danish Peo ple's Party ( PVV ) and National Front ( FN ) say they have a unfavorable view of the Northern League ( which was formerly the UK Independence Party ). Just 27 % of those with an unfavorable opinion of National Front say they see the FN favorably.
In the new analysis, nearly one-in-five Americans ( 23 % ) say they do not have health insurance coverage at all, including 7 % who do have a health insurance account that is not available for them personally. In a year when the health care system was in place, just 10 % of Americans said they had health insurance.
By comparison, non-internet users have broadband at home and are much more likely to have access to a broadband connection at home. Some 55 % of broadband users in the U.S. have internet access at home, compared with 40 % of dial-up users.
When it comes to defense spending, a majority of Germans say that their country should spend more on their national defense, even as fewer Americans say the same about their own country's defense budget. However, the public's views on whether Germany should dedicate more resources to its national defense has changed little since 2017. In 2017, about half of Germans ( 51 % ) wanted their country to dedicate more attention to their nation's national defense. The share who did so was up 11 percentage points from 2017, when just 39 % felt the same way.
Sub-Saharan Africa is projected to be the world's most populated region by 2060. By 2060, more than 4-in-ten Christians expected to live in the region, accounting for 80 % of the total global Christian population.
A majority of adults in France say they reject negative statements about Jews. This is a big shift since 2002, when 70 % of those surveyed said they reject such statements. In the new survey, around seven-in-ten French adults ( 72 % ) reject such negative statements, while only 13 % say they strongly reject them. The vast majority of those in France ( 85 % ) also reject unfavorable statements of Jews.
Again, on balance, foreign publics lack confidence in Trump to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs. The survey, conducted in spring and summer 2019, finds that the lack of confidence in the 45th U.S. president is driven in part by opposition to his policies. A median of 68 % across the nations polled say they disapprove of the U.W. increasing tariffs on imported goods ; a median of 66 % oppose the Trump administration's withdrawal from international climate agreements ; and 60 % disapprove of Trump's proposal to build a wall on the border with Mexico.
When it comes to priorities, a majority of voters ( 77 % ) say society is just as well off if people make marriage and children priority. About three-in-ten ( 42 % ) volunteer the view that society is better off if more people focus on their own personal priorities, while 43 % say it's better if more focus on marriage and having children.
The use of non-voice applications in the U.S. has increased substantially over the last year. Some 65 % of cell phone owners say they use their phone to send or receive email, while 25 % say they do not use these applications at all. Meanwhile, about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they ever go online to a concert or play music, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in April – the first survey in the Center's nearly yearlong Election News Pathways project.
Scientists and Americans have widely different beliefs about the causes of human evolution. A majority of AAAS scientists ( 76 % ) say humans have evolved over time, while just 9 % of U.S. adults say humans evolved as a couple over time. Another 23 % say humans'evolved through natural processes rather than humans'genetic changes.
Eastern Europeans are especially dissatisfied with the way democracy is working. Majorities in eight Western European countries surveyed – the Netherlands, Poland, Germany, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Spain – express dissatisfaction with the state of democracy in their country. By contrast, Eastern Europeans are evenly divided, with a median of 50 % dissatisfied and a nearly equal share ( 46 % ) saying they are satisfied.
Wealth gaps between blacks and whites have widened across income groups. In 2016, the median net worth of black lower- and middle-income families was 3.9 times greater than that of black black adults, and in 2017, 4.9 million lower-income households had a median wealth of 4.0 times their black counterparts.
About seven-in-ten registered voters ( 68 % ) say that personal insults are `` never fair game '' in politics, while just 30 % say they are mostly acceptable. The share who view personal insults as insults is about the same as it was for Donald Trump ( 74 % ) and Ted Cruz ( 72 % ).
Americans have a lot of confidence in NASA. In fact, 71 % of all Americans with a postgraduate degree say they think the space program is a good investment. By comparison, just 17 % of Americans with some college experience and 11 % of those with a high school diploma or less say the same.
Publics in the Middle East and the U.S. largely lack confidence in MBS. In Israel, the Palestinian territories, Jordan and Turkey, fewer than two-thirds or more say they have confidence in the Islamic Republic's influence. In Tunisia, 83 % lack confidence, as do 68 % in Turkey.
Roughly six-in-ten Japanese ( 62 % ) believe Japan should be more active in the Asia-Pacific region than it should be in the Middle East. Only 23 % back a militaristic stance against terrorism and about a quarter ( 23 % ) oppose increased military action in the region. These views are largely unchanged from 2015.
More broadly, men who have online dated are more likely than women to say they didn't get enough messages on a dating site or app in the past five years. Some 48 % of men with online dated say they found enough messages online to be acceptable, compared with 57 % of women. These differences remain after controlling for gender and age, as well as for whether men and women in the dating world agree on a problem or not.
Voters'negative feelings about the campaign are several factors in their attitudes about the candidates. Nearly half of voters ( 49 % ) say they have been feeling angry when the campaign began, while 43 % say they feel scared. Smaller shares say their feelings have been disappointed ( 7 % ) or angry ( 5 % ).
As global competition between China and the U.S. intensifies, publics around the world lack confidence in Xi to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs. A median of 41 % across the 14 countries surveyed say they have no confidence in the Chinese leader's global leadership.
The public continues to pay attention to a series of news stories that struck the road in Washington that was closed for several weeks as a result of a Winter Weather Advisory Committee report. About one-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy more closely than any other story. The week's other news stories drew more focus on events in Washington, while the public focused more closely on the controversy in Fallujah, Texas. For its part, the media devoted the most attention to the story. About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Americans say they paid very close
Some 41 % of adults say they would not be likely to speak with a public health official by phone or text message about COVID-19. Not all Americans are equally likely to say this. For example, looking at this first step of the process only, 44 % of those with a high school diploma or less formal education say they are not at all or not too likely to do so. There are also differences by income : 40 % of college graduates say this, compared with a smaller share ( 22 % ) of those who have a bachelor's degree or higher. And Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are more likely
People's assessments of how well the WHO has dealt with COVID-19 have changed since the spring of 2020. In a spring 2020 survey, half of U.S. adults said the organization had done a good job responding to the pandemic, while 44 % said the same about the organization's response. But that share had declined to 46 % in summer 2020, and to 53 % in September 2020, according to a new Pew Research Center survey.
But for some racial identity can be more challenging. For example, about three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 77 % ) say they have previously thought of themselves as two or more races, while just 29 % say they now consider themselves to be one or more of the same race. In this sense, blacks and Hispanics are often more likely than whites to perceive themselves as one of a broader set of racial groups or to identify as distinct from the broader racial background of the population. For instance, about seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) of blacks say they recently consider themselves part of a larger race or ethnicity
Many attend services at least once a month, but only a small share ( 6 % ) say they attend in-person services. And just 5 % of churchgoers say they never attend services in person, even if they have to document a reason for going. Among churchgoing Protestants, attendance is very low – just 2 % of respondents say they regularly attend services and they seldom or never do so. About three-quarters of Catholics ( 77 % ), Protestants in the historically black tradition ( 79 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 78 % ) also say they rarely or never attend religious services.
With more than three months to go before the first votes are cast in the 2020 presidential election, public attention is at a large level. About three-quarters of Americans ( 74 % ) say they have given a lot or some thought to who is running for president in 2020, and this is the same as in 2018. At this point in the campaign in 2006, 39 % had given the same amount of thought to the presidential candidates.
The survey also asked Americans to assess the `` typical American '' – that is, the type of person who is more patriotic, intelligent and selfish. Around two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say these traits do not apply to the typical American – and they don't see any difference between the two groups. About three-quarters of Democrats ( 77 % ) and Republicans and Republican leaners ( 68 % ) see thetypical American as patriotic. But Democrats and Democratic leaners are more likely to say this than Republicans and GOP leaners – on traits like selfishness and selfishness.
Roughly a quarter of U.S. adults ( 23 % ) say that the results of their DNA testing have changed how they think about themselves, how they feel about their racial or ethnic identity, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2018. The share is even higher among younger adults. Seven-in-ten adults ages 18 to 49 say that DNA testing has changed how people think about them, a similar share to that of those 50 and older ( 24 % ). Whites are more divided on this question than blacks or Hispanics.
About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) median Salaries for news reporters, editors, photographers and videographers fell from $ 18,000 in 2012 to $ 6,700 in 2012. The rest of the news staff are below the age of 50 and are now working as news directors or assistant news directors.
When asked about their regular religious attendance habits, 40 % of teens say they attend services with both parents and one parent. And 26 % say they never attend with any other parent. There is no answer given on who is in this group by any parent. Roughly one-quarter of teens ( 26 % ) who never attend worship services with one parent say they don't attend at all ( 2 % ) or never ( 1 % ) attend with one parents.
With the election still close to a year away, Republicans are more confident than Democrats about their party's chances in the congressional elections. Nearly six-in-ten ( 63 % ) Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters say they are looking forward to the elections, compared with 53 % who say the same about the Democrats.
Mobile technology has become a key source of news for many Americans. Today, about two-thirds of those who live in households earning $ 75,000 or more a year get news on a mobile device such as an Amazon Echo or Google News app. But the share who get news through a desktop or laptop computer has risen six percentage points over the past two years – from 42 % in 2016 to 34 % today. Those with lower incomes are also more likely than those with higher incomes to say they get news via a mobile phone. Roughly seven-in-ten Americans with family incomes of $ 30,000 ( 72 %
For the public, the economic crisis and the rise in violence in Iraq were the dominant stories of the week. More than four-in-ten Americans ( 34 % ) say they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely and another 34 % say it was the story they followed most closely. Hood climbers continue to follow economic news very closely. In fact, the media devoted 10 % of its coverage to the story.
Nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say they think of Fox News Channel as the most-named news organization, while an identical share say they see it as the New York Times ( 16 % ) and CNBC ( 12 % ).
As of July 12, Trump's confirmed judges have accounted for more than a quarter ( 22 % ) of all confirmed federal judges – more than the number of any other president, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of biographical information from the Senate's biographical database. In all 12 presidents, Trump has confirmed more female judges than male judges. The average number of confirmed judges appointed by Republican George W. Bush during his eight years in office was 0.4 million, according with 0.1 million of those appointed by Democratic George H.W. Bush and Republican John McCain.
Despite the declining share of people who see France as a threat to their country, the public sees a more prominent role for the French role in the world than it was 10 years ago. A median of 33 % across the 10 European countries surveyed say France plays a more important role than a decade ago, while a median of 20 % say the same about the UK. The share saying France is as important on the world stage has fallen from a peak of 47 % in 1990 to about a quarter in 2014 and 27 % today. The UK fares the worst in the survey, with just 28 % saying they are safe from terrorism and
But despite these reservations, Canadians are concerned about other issues as well. For example, more than half of Canadians ( 45 % ) are worried about global climate change, Iran's nuclear program, and cyberattacks ( 39 % ). On the other hand, only about one-in-five ( 19 % ) say they are somewhat concerned about territorial disputes between China and its neighbors.
In the wake of Russia's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region, a majority of Russians ( 85 % ) believe their country is trying to balance the influence of the United States and other Western powers. Just 55 % support a strong Russia.
Overall, nearly half of teens ( 53 % ) say they use their cellphones to avoid interacting with others online. This type of digitally facilitated communication is more prevalent than teens who use social media ( 46 % ) or messaging apps ( 45 % ). And while 46 % of teens say they have blocked or blocked someone because of something that friend posted about them on social media, the share is 46 % smaller when it comes to how much personal information is available to advertisers.
Conservative Republicans are increasingly concerned that state governments will not be lifted quickly enough : Nearly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) say this, compared with 38 % who say their greater concern is that restrictions on public activity will be lifted too quickly. This is a sharp increase since April, when 44 % of conservative Republicans said this.
Overall, Trump and Biden supporters place great importance on preventing ineligible voting, but they lack confidence this will happen. Around two-thirds ( 66 % ) of registered voters who support Trump say they are very confident this would happen, while about three-quarters ( 77 % ) are somewhat confident. Among Trump supporters, these gaps are wider when it comes to confidence that ineligible voting will actually happen. About nine-in-ten Trump supporters ( 93 % ) say this, as do roughly 77 % of Biden supporters.
Average audience for morning news programs from ABC, CBS and NBC declined over the past year, down 4 % in 2018, to about 1.25 million from 2.3 million.
White House chief of staff had prior experience in the White House, political office and military. In a Pew Research Center survey conducted in January, only 9 % of white House chiefs with prior experience had a postgraduate degree. But nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) had prior White House experience ; 19 % had no experience in either field. Among Democrats, the average number of experience with White House staff was 8 %.
Hispanics broadly support granting legal status to immigrants brought to the U.S. illegally as children. About nine-in-ten Hispanics ( 86 % ) favor a law that would provide permanent legal status, up from 62 % in 2010. A smaller share ( 36 % ) are opposed. As with some other immigration issues, there are sharp partisan differences in views on this issue. For example, 77 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents favor granting permanent status, compared with 78 % of Republicans and Republican leaners.
18 '' Bots '' on Twitter may be behind more link sharing than human beings. An estimated two-thirds of tweeted links to popular news and media websites ( 66 % ) are posted by automated accounts, while around a third ( 34 % ) is posted by human accounts, based on a sample of tweets from 2017. A relatively small number of highly active bots appear to be responsible for many of those links.
Despite these tensions and a history of hostility between the two countries, most support renewal of diplomatic relations with Cuba. A 55 % majority in the U.S. approves of renewed diplomatic relations, while 40 % oppose such an end. At the same time, the public is divided over the need for an end to the Bush era embargo.
People with an unfavorable view of the U.S. are most likely to use a negative term to describe the country ( 70 % vs. 61 %, respectively ). The same is true for views of Canada : Those with a favorable view of Canada are at least twice as likely as those with an unfavorably view to say a negative word can be applied to the United States ( 80 % in both cases vs. 28 % of those with a positive view of Ottawa ). On balance, people in Mexico tend to use both negative and positive terms when using the term.
The Republican Party's Core Conservatives make up the largest share of political engaged in typology groups in the U.S. Core Conservatives account for 16 % of Republicans and Republican leaners and 18 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners who are highly engaged in the typology group. In contrast, only about a third ( 31 % ) of New Era Enterprisers say they are very politically engaged, while 11 % of Country First Conservatives and 15 % of Market Skeptic Republicans say the same.
Online shopping is a key part of teens'experience. Just over two-thirds of teens ( 65 % ) say they prefer to shop online or in stores ; roughly the same share prefer to shopped in person ( 17 % ) or online ( 19 % ). There are no significant differences by gender or race when it comes to online shopping.
Overall, about three-quarters of Americans ( 77 % ) continue to say they are at least somewhat concerned about the coronavirus, while about half as many ( 49 % ) are very concerned. However, Republicans across income groups are more concerned : 50 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say this, compared with 46 % of those who are not too concerned or not at all concerned. Large majorities of Hispanic ( 76 % ) and Black ( 73 % ) Republicans express concern. The balance of opinion is the opposite among Democrats : While both Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are about as concerned about COVID-19 as Republicans and
The publics surveyed also see Trump more negatively than other world leaders. Among the six leaders included on the survey, Angela Merkel receives the highest marks : A median of 76 % across the nations polled have confidence in the German chancellor. French President Emmanuel Macron also gets largely favorable reviews. Ratings for British Prime Minister Boris Johnson are roughly split.
Currently, 45 % of all adults approve of the way Trump is handling his job as president, including 45 % who disapprove. Among whites, about as many approve ( 50 % ) as disapprove ( 48 % ) of Trump's job performance.
Of the party's best-known possible candidates, Romney is the best known among those who have heard of him ( 85 % ). About as many ( 80 % ) say they would vote for Romney while just 19 % say there would be less chance they would support McCain. About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) would back out of the race for the GOP nomination.
As the Pakistani military sweeps the country, the public is in a mood of anti- Taliban sentiment. Majorities of Pakistanis ( 59 % ) and Taliban supporters ( 64 % ) hold a negative view of the terrorist organization. One exception is supporters of the Pakistan Taliban – whom the government has been struggling to control – and is viewed favorably by just 8 % of the public.
Older Americans who live in their own home spend more time alone than those who do not live with a spouse or partner. Fully 71 % of those ages 60 and older spend more than 10 hours a day in this arrangement, compared with just 10 % of older adults who live with their own. The same is true of those who say they spend the same amount of time with their spouse ( 7 % ) or partner ( 15 % ).
5 College presidents and university presidents are more likely to say learning online is an equal value compared with classes taken in a classroom. College presidents ( 72 % ) are for sure the most value when it comes to online learning – 37 % say online learning for this reason is equal to college students, and 25 % say it is. However, the views of these three groups vary widely by major party and level of education. Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are far more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say college students are better off if they learn how to go online and where they live ( 66 % vs. 29 % )
The Obama administration deported a record 438,421 unauthorized immigrants in fiscal year 2013, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey. A total 2.4 million were deported to those who had had serious concerns about deportation in the past year, including a record 435,000 in 2013 who were very concerned about deportation. The new administration also deported about as many Criminals ( 198,000 ) as Americans ( 197,000 ; a new high by far the lowest number to date ).
The public is divided in their views of how much government should be changed. A majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 68 % ) say democracy is wormed along very well in the U.S. today, while 32 % say it is not too well. Majorities of Republicans and Republican leaners also say that major changes in the design and structure of government are needed.
In most surveyed countries, people think the economy is doing poorly. Nearly seven-in-ten adults in the U.S. ( 69 % ) say the economy does not perform well, while a median of only 30 % say it is doing well. These findings are consistent with findings from a 2018 Center survey, which found that people in most countries are pessimistic about the economy.
The middle class is far more likely to blame Congress and institutions for the difficulties the middle class has faced in the past 10 years than say the same about the Obama administration ( 62 % vs. 44 % ). About as many ( 47 % ) blame foreign competition and 44 % blame the Bush administration for foreign competition.
Western Europeans are wary of the rise of Islamic extremism among Muslims. Majorities in Jordan ( 82 % ), Spain ( 83 % ) and Germany ( 78 % ) see Islamic extremism as a threat to their country. By contrast, just 21 % of Muslims in France say Islamic extremism is a good thing.
Varying views of the universe. In a survey conducted in May, a majority of teens ages 13 to 17 ( 77 % ) said they feel a deep sense of wonder about the universe – similar to the share of Americans who are evangelical Protestants ( 50 % ) and agnostics ( 54 % ) who say the same. And about two-thirds of teens ( 68 % ) were religiously unaffiliated as of May 13 – the highest share of any racial or ethnic group. ( The survey did not ask teens to identify with any religion. )
In the Center's April survey, 71 % of U.S. adults favored postponing state primary elections because they would personally feel uncomfortable going to a polling place to vote ; two-thirds ( 66 % ) said this would be necessary. Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents were far more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to support this option ( 63 % vs. 34 % ).
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that roughly one-in-five U.S. adults ( 15 % ) believe the scientific method is an extremely ( 12 % ) or very ( 15 percentage points ) process that leads to decisions about how to produce sound conclusions. Another 17 % say the method is largely inefficient and that it generally produces mistakes. The views of this group are strongly disagree by religious affiliation. Roughly one-quarter ( 24 % ) of adults with a high school diploma or less and 17 % of those with a bachelor's degree or less say the process is very inefficient or that it is not worth the
The survey also finds that relatively few Americans have heard about the aftermath of last week's suicide bombing at a Rutgers University in New Jersey. Fewer ( 24 % ) say they heard a lot about the story, which was based on a survey conducted earlier this year.
The survey of publics in 39 countries finds broad acceptance of homosexuality in North America, the European Union, and much of Latin America, but equally widespread rejection in predominantly Muslim nations and in Africa, as well as in parts of Asia and in the Middle East. Opinion about the acceptability of homosexuality is divided in Israel, Poland and Germany.
About three-quarters of the public ( 77 % ) say undocumented immigrants mostly fill jobs U.S. citizens do not want. A smaller share ( 34 % ) says the same about legal immigrants.
Americans have mixed views of the benefits of internet-enabled gig work. While 68 % say that these jobs are good for people who want to work full time, 54 % say they are bad for those who don't work part time and just 21 % say these work for them as a way to earn money that is not available for them. And 68 % of adults say that internet-connected businesses help make it easier for people to build their own career, while 21 % believe these programs are a bad thing because they place too much financial burden on workers.
Americans have mixed views about how well colleges and universities affect the way things are going in the country today. About half ( 51 % ) of Americans overall say college education prepares someone for a well-paying job in today's economy, while 46 % say the same about a high school education. Among those with a bachelor's degree or more, the share is much higher—46 % ).
When it comes to geographic growth, the Northeast region accounted for the majority of Latino population growth in the seven years from 2007 to 2014. From 2000 to 2014, the U.S. counties that served as the home to the largest Hispanic population growth were experiencing the largest increase in the number of Latino populations ( 44.3 % ) than those in prior periods. By contrast, in the same period, the South accounted for a much smaller share ( 41.6 % ) of Latinopopulation growth.
The belief that God has approved of some of Donald Trump's policies is especially widespread among Democrats. Roughly one-in-five Democrats ( 49 % ) say that God helped them approve of their policies, while 49 % say they did not. This is considerably higher than the shares who said God approved of the election's other two major candidates ( 2008, 2012 and 2016 ).
China's rise in military power has made relations with the United States more important. But the public is divided on whether Japan should play a more active role in the region : A majority of Americans ( 59 % ) say Japan should become more important in the world, while 43 % oppose Japan shifting its military role. Only about a quarter ( 24 % ) of Americans believe Japan should limit its military presence in Asia. On balance, Americans say that Japan should take its own interests into account while leaving it open to other countries. But when it comes to Japan's increasing military role in Asia, people in the U.S
The Republican Party holds a slight edge over the GOP on some other major issues, including the budget deficit ( 47 % Republican Party, 41 % Democratic Party ). On immigration, the Republican Party is seen as more willing to work with the other party with people like them, while the Democratic Party is more divided on the economy ( 46 % Republican party, 47 % Democratic party ).
News reports last week about the escalating conflict between Israel and Hamas competed for public attention with stories about the U.S. financial crisis and the Obama presidential transition. Roughly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) paid very close attention to news about renewed fighting in the Gaza Strip, while 18 % say this was the single news story they followed most closely. Still, in a week in which the media devoted more space to Middle East coverage than any other story, Americans remained most focused on the continuing economic crisis. Public interest in the first days of the latest Middle East conflict is on par with other recent foreign news stories,
The Islamic militant group known as ISIS is viewed as a major threat in the Philippines by 70 % of the public, according to the latest survey conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press. Other top threats named by respondents include global climate change ( 70 % major threat ) and cyberattacks from other countries ( 64 % ).
Older Americans are the most likely to say the coronavirus has made up a larger share of the public this year than it really is. About six-in-ten ( 58 % ) those ages 65 and older think the U.S. has been made a smaller deal this year, compared with 37 % of those ages 18 to 29. The same is true of about half ( 51 % ) of those 50 and older.
As Iranians prepare to elect a new president, the U.S. public is divided over the nuclear program. Majorities in Britain ( 97 % ), France ( 95 % ) and Germany ( 92 % ) disapprove of Iran acquiring a nuclear weapons program. About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) in Indonesia, 32 % in Pakistan, and a plurality in Turkey ( 52 % ) also disapprove.
Most in the U.S. see net benefits from science for society, and they expect more ahead. About seven-in-ten Americans ( 73 % ) say science has, on balance, had a mostly positive effect on society. And 82 % expect future scientific developments to yield benefits for society in years to come.
Fully 98 % of scientists talk with the public about science on social media. A nearly equal share ( 98 % ) say they ever talk with citizens about science research about research findings ; a nearly identical share ( 51 % ) says they ever blog about a science blog and research.
Adults with lower levels of education are also less likely to see their internet adoption rates as rising. For example, while fully 96 % of college graduates and 72 % of those with some college education say they have used the internet, that share falls to 55 % among those with a high school diploma or less.
By nearly four-to-one ( 57 % to 25 % ), those who say they personally know someone who doesn't wear a mask say that maskwearing is morally acceptable, including 47 % who say it is very unacceptable. Among mask-wearing adults, about six-in-ten ( 61 % ) say that it is acceptable, while about half ( 51 % ) says it is not too or not at all acceptable. These demographic differences are especially stark in the case of age. For example, among adults 65 and older, 58 % say that masks should be required, while 44 % say they should
With the Senate still less than five months away, Americans are divided in their reactions to last week's Senate gun vote. Roughly half ( 48 % ) say they are very ( 26 % ) or somewhat ( 39 % ) satisfied with the legislation that would bring new gun checks to the forefront of the debate, while 39 % are not too happy or not at all happy. Both Republicans ( 58 % ) and Democrats ( 44 % ) are more likely to see this as a good thing than say it would be bad for the country.
Roughly three-quarters of Americans ( 76 % ) say they think the holiday season is a good time to be a family member, a more common practice among Baby Boomers ( 68 % ) than by the Silent generation ( 35 % ).
Hispanics made up a larger share of the vote in congressional elections than in the U.S. House of Representatives, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of National Election Pool exit poll data. More than seven-in-ten Hispanics ( 69 % ) voted for Democrats in congressional races compared with 56 % of Republicans – a 22-percentage-point gap. The large majority of Hispanics ( 54 % ) also supported the Democratic congressional candidates, but by a smaller margin – 54 % to 23 %.
More say Trump's economic policies have made the economy worse ( 44 % ) than better ( 30 % ) ; nearly a third ( 34 % ) say they have not had much of an effect. The public's views on the president's impact are about the same as they were a month ago : Currently, 79 % say the Trump administration has made economic conditions better, while 44 % say it has not made much difference.
Overall, very few Africans have landlines, and this fact is most apparent in several emerging and developing nations. Only 6 % of South Africans have a landline telephone. This share is almost identical to the share in Pakistan ( 6 % ), which has a rural population of about 3 million and who live in neighboring countries ( 3 % ). Broad majorities in all six nations have at least some landlines.
However, the organization's most recent estimates suggest that Estonia, Romania, Poland and Lithuania would meet the NATO median defense spending threshold by 2 %. Only in the Czech Republic and Poland do member states meet the threshold.
About half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) say foods containing genetically modified ( GM ) ingredients are worse for you than foods containing no GM ingredients, while another 39 % say foods with GM ingredients are at least fairly likely to improve the global food supply. These findings are largely unchanged from a year earlier.
Two examples illustrate this pattern. Democrats with a high degree of science knowledge say human activity contributes a great deal to climate change, but there is no parallel among Democrats with low science knowledge who say the same.
Still, many college graduates – and those with a high school diploma or less – say children with two parents are better off if a parent stays at home. Among those who say the same, just 38 % of college graduates say children are just as well off if their parents work outside the home.
There are deep ideological differences in views of all three leaders. For example, among Republicans and Republican leaners, 40 % have a favorable view of Netanyahu, compared with 32 % who have an unfavorable view of the Israeli leader. But views of Netanyahu are deeply polarized along ideological lines. Among conservative Republicans, 60 % view Netanyahu favorably, while just 18 % view him unfavorably ; about half ( 49 % ) have no opinion of him. Liberal Democrats hold a more negative view of Benjamin Netanyahu than conservative and moderate Democrats.
Africa's foreign-born population has increased since 1970. In 2015, an estimated 638,000 people born in Africa were living in the U.S. This is more than triple the number in 1970 and far exceeds the 1.5 million immigrants who arrived in the United States in 1980. By contrast, only sub-Saharan African nations – such as Nigeria, Ethiopia and Burkina Faso – make up a larger share of the foreign-origin population.
Among Republicans, conservatives tend to have more positive views of Aid to the poor than moderates and liberals. About seven-in-ten Republicans with annual household incomes of $ 30,000 or more ( 71 % ) say they have a positive view of government support for the poor, compared with 24 % of moderate and liberal Republicans.
Most teens ( 57 % ) say they use their cellphones to pass time in order to connect with other people, learn new things ( 47 % ) and avoid interacting with people ( 32 % ). At the same time, a third of teens say their phone is for a wide range of reasons and these reasons apply to their own decision not to use cellphones. For instance, 47 % of teens ages 13 to 17 say a major reason they use phones is for the purposes of communicating and learning new things, while 35 % say they do not want to interact with others.
For many users, these devices help them complete their jobs without having to rely on a smartphone. For example, more than half of smartphone-only Americans ( 53 % ) say they do not use their phone to fill out a job application using a smartphone, compared with 14 % of adults who do have a desktop, laptop or tablet computer. Similarly, smartphone users are less likely to rely heavily on their phone for advanced job seeking tasks. Some 29 % of smartphone users report that they have a phone that does not enable them to complete an online job application because the phone is not allowed to connect to a computer.
More than four-in-ten ( 42 % ) Indians say the U.S. will be a shrinking world power by 2050, according to a Pew Research Center projections. Indians, however, are even more likely to see their country as a shrinking economy compared with China, a longtime world power, and a rising share of Americans as well as China.
In many countries, views of the economy do not align with optimism about the future. In the U.S., Canada and the Netherlands, roughly two-thirds or more say economic conditions will be worse in a year ( 65 % and 66 %, respectively ). And in Japan and Brazil, more than eight-in-ten or more express optimism.
Despite its recent drop in economic growth and rise in unemployment and inflation, nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) Czechs approved of the change to the multiparty electoral system. Only 8 % of those in Poland and 7 % in Lithuania disapproved.
In the wake of the 2016 presidential campaign, cold ratings for members of the opposing party rose sharply. About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) rated `` cold '' to 100, a higher than the share who felt `` warmly '' toward the president in March 2016, according to a Pew Research Center survey. A few months later, this share had risen to about 76 %.
Supporters of legalization are more likely than opponents to have changed their minds about the issue. Among supporters of legalization, 53 % say they think the country should be legal, while 21 % say it should be illegal. Opponents are divided, with 41 % saying they want to legalize abortion and 23 % opposed it.
Latinos are more likely than the overall U.S. population to see the coronavirus in the most serious terms. Three-in-ten Hispanics ( 39 % ) say the outbreak is a major threat to their health, compared with 27 % of Americans overall who say the same. By contrast, about half of Americans who live in the U..S. ( 51 % ) and whose main source of income is money, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in late April and early April. ) Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Hispanics say COVID-19 affects their local community day-to-
As people have gained more access to computers and cell phones, internet and email usage have also increased. A median of 45 % across the 18 countries for which 2007 trends are available now say they use the internet at least occasionally ; three years ago, when the Pew Global Attitudes Project first asked this question, a median of 35 % said that was the case. The median percentage that sends or receives email at least sometimes has also risen, although not as steeply, from 29 % in 2007 to 34 % in 2010.
Facebook remains a dominant force in Americans'social media ecosystems, even as Instagram has risen into a prominent role in teens'online lives. Some 67 % of U.S. adults use Facebook, according to a survey of teens conducted last year by the Pew Research Center's Project for Excellence in Journalism. Pinterest is a distant second in that share, with just 51 % of teens using the site.
The share of Millennials who own aPod or mp3 player is more popular among older adults ( 56 % ) than among younger adults ( 42 % ). iPod ownership is also more prevalent among adults in the Baby Boomers ( 47 % ) and Millennials ( 44 % ), while just 10 % of those ages 18 - 34 own a mp3 gaming device.
Roughly six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) say Russia's power and influence is a major threat to the way things are going in the U.S. – a stark contrast to the 47 % who say the same about Russia. Republicans are also more likely than Democrats to see Russian power as a threat ( 43 % vs. 43 % ).
The public is divided over whether or not a way can be found for Israel and an independent Palestinian state to coexist peacefully in the Middle East. Overall, 46 % think this can happen, while 44 % do not think so. In April, 44 % thought a two-state solution in the region could work, while 41 % disagreed.
On the other hand, the Washington Post and ABC News Channel are the two most frequently cited news stories on the issue. About seven-in-ten ( 70 % ) Americans say that when it comes to allowing gays and lesbians to marry, 70 % say the news should be legal, while 40 % say it should be illegal.
Hispanics are the most likely to enroll in college : 67 % say they have enrolled in college, compared with 52 % of blacks and 32 % of whites. By comparison, two-thirds of Asian-American college graduates ( 67 % ), and seven-in-ten white graduates ( 71 % ) go to college.
In Sweden, those who support right-wing populist parties ( like Sweden Democrats or Alternative for Germany ) are generally less supportive of religious freedom. A majority ( 63 % ) in Sweden Democrats and 67 % of the Netherlands favor the Forum for Democracy in Europe ( FD ), which is largely in line with the rest of the EU on some other political issues. But in France, supporters of the far right National Rally ( FN ) are less likely to support religious freedom than those who do not favor the FN.
White liberal Democrats were far more likely than conservative and moderate Democrats to express confidence in police officers. More than eight-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 84 % ) compared with about three-quarters of moderate and conservative Democrats ( 72 % ). In contrast, a majority of white conservative Republicans ( 56 % ) said they had little or no confidence in officers to act in the best interests of the public.
About three-in-ten each say they very closely followed news about gas and oil prices ( 28 % ) and the presidential candidates ( 29 % ). The economic debate accounted for 17 % of coverage, according to PEJ.
Three-in-ten Americans ( 35 % ) say they followed news about the ongoing investigation into the Casey Anthony murder case very closely, while 35 % say the same about the coronavirus outbreak in Europe. ( An additional 39 % say this about the shooting of Gabrielle Giffords in early January. ) The Weiner photo controversy is shared by 37 % of the public.
Roughly six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 62 % ) say climate change is currently affecting their local community either a great deal or some, according to a new Pew Research Center survey. This finding is consistent with a 2018 Center survey, in which 59 % of Americans said global climate change was affecting their own community at least some.
The 2008 presidential campaign dominated the national news last week, driven in large part by the lively Democratic debate in Philadelphia. Public interest in the campaign was up somewhat from previous weeks with 27 % of Americans paying very close attention to campaign news. More than one-in-five named the campaign as the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week. This placed the campaign on par with the war in Iraq as one of the week's two most closely followed stories.
About a third ( 35 % ) of adults in each religious group have completed high school, the highest share of any religious group. By comparison, the share of Americans who have completed college has declined from 59 % to 47 %.
People in emerging economies feel social media are giving them a political voice, but also increasing the risk of manipulation. A recent Pew Research Center survey shows that a median of 58 % of social media users across the 11 countries surveyed say social media sites help them feel more connected to their political voice and less concerned about the possibility of manipulation and harassment.
Around half of online daters ( 50 % ) say it is very common for users to pretend to be more desirable to others in order to appear more desirable. A similar share ( 48 % ) report that people often set up fake accounts to get information they didn't ask for. Privacy violations such as data breaches or identity theft are considerably less common.
A majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 63 % ) say they disapprove of the party's handling of same-sex marriage ; 42 % favor it ; 30 % are opposed. Republicans who lean to the Republican Party are more evenly divided on the issue ( 41 % oppose vs. 50 % favor ). A majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners who do not lean to either party ( 57 % ) approve of the GOP's stance on same-marriage.
Health care is among the top issues for Latino registered voters as well as for their Latino counterparts. Fully 54 % of Latinos say health care is an extremely important issue to their vote, compared with 54 % who say the same about jobs and the economy ( also discussed in the survey ). However, Latinos are more concerned about the federal budget deficit ( 54 % ) and the health care system ( 36 % ).
About six-in-ten Americans ( 62 % ) say they expect made-up news to target their own party more than the other party, about twice the share ( 21 % ) who say this about the GOP. Among Democrats and Democratic leaners, about half ( 51 % ) expect news about the Democratic Party to be much more focused on the 2020 election, while just 36 % say it will be more important. Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are about evenly divided : 45 % say they will focus more on the party's agenda, while 46 % say this will not be the case.
A majority of conservative Republicans ( 56 % ) say they favor expanding presidential powers more effectively if U.S. presidents didn't have to worry so much about Congress or the courts. The share of moderate and liberal Republicans who favor giving presidents more power has risen from 52 % in January to 70 % today. In addition, a majority of liberal Democrats ( 70 % ) back more power to deal directly with problems many problems could be dealt with without the need for congressional approval.
Specifically, people with more exposure to gene editing are more likely to anticipate both positive and negative effects from widespread use of gene editing. For example, 64 % of Americans with a favorable view of gene engineering say that it will pave way for new medical advances that help people live longer and better quality lives, while 54 % expect it will only be available to the wealthy. There are also some small differences in expectations for the effects of widespread gene editing by age, with about four-in-ten adults ( 43 % ) saying that if these techniques are used appropriately by some others, it will be morally unacceptable and 54 % saying it
The same pattern arises when it comes to perceptions of how other communities are viewed. A majority of Americans who live in urban areas ( 63 % ) feel their communities are looked down on by people in other types of communities, while fewer ( 9 % ) say they feel they are favored by those in rural areas, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2018. This feeling is especially prevalent in the case of crime.
Smartphone owners see a mix of benefits and pitfalls related to their devices. For instance, 54 % of smartphone owners say their phone is something that frees them rather than something that ties them down. Another 28 % say a phone that is not always needed is something they couldn't live without.
There is a similar pattern in attitudes about the openness of colleges to a wide range of opinions. About eight-in-ten Republican voters ( 81 % ) who have completed college say the openness to colleges is a bad thing, compared with a smaller majority of Democratic voters ( 65 % ). Just as large majorities of Republicans with a high school diploma or less say colleges are unfriendly ( 87 % ), Democrats with a college degree or less ( 75 % ) and Republicans with some college experience ( 55 % ) say the same. Among those with a postgraduate degree, the views are much more skeptical : 46 % say
Many libraries do not offer key learning and education resources. In fact, just over half of U.S. adults ( 62 % ) say they have free access to e-books and digitial audio books for borrowing, while 47 % say that they have not visited a library in the past year. A substantial share of the public does not know if many libraries offer online career- and high school resources ( 49 % ) or online programs that certify that people have mastered new skills ( 41 % ).
About half ( 53 % ) of the public say they are concerned about the rising price of gasoline replaced the war in Iraq, and about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say the same about health care. Terorism is a distant second, at 36 %. However, as with other political issues, there are some partisan differences. For instance, while Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are more concerned about this than Republicans and Republican leaners are about the same on taxes ( 36 % vs. 36 % ).
eligible immigrants who have applied to the Obama administration's executive actions would be more likely to receive relief from deportation than those who do not have a deportation relief package. In an estimated 5.8 % of those eligible to apply would be in the program, compared with 5.9 % of eligible immigrants without deportation relief.
For many teens, the phone number for texting is the first thing they share with their new friends. Some 54 % of teens say they text when they get a new friend's phone number, compared with just 18 % who say they call 9 to ask for a password. Meanwhile, about six-in-ten teens ( 59 % ) say they use the video calling service ( 30 % ) or the app for social media ( 18 % ).
For instance, across eight financial categories, a median of 62 % say the business sector is the most secure thing to do for their country, while 37 % believe the government is least secure. Similarly, virtually identical percentages in all groups say the government performance is good or excellent.
Podcast listenership continues to grow. The share of Americans who listen to podcasts in the past week has steadily grown in the recent years, though there are some notable differences in these levels by listenership. In early 2019, 51 % of Americans ages 12 and older had listened to a podcast in the Past month, while just 17 % had listened in that week.
Over the past two decades, the fall of the Berlin Wall – the symbol of the transatlantic relationship – and the freeing of the German Marshall Plan have been the most important events in U.S.-German relations. Nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) say the end of the World War II era, the signing of the Marshall Plan over the Traq War ( 57 % ), the Fall of the Wall ( 58 % ) are very important events for the United States, although only about a quarter of Germans say this was very important.
Many Germans see the United Kingdom as a top foreign policy partner ; fewer Americans feel the same way about Germany. When asked which countries are their most or second-most important partners in global affairs, Germans name France more than any other country, but the U.S. is in the second spot. Roughly four-in-ten Germans say France is either their country's first or second most important partner. Americans are much less likely to see Germany this way : Only 12 % name Germany as one of America's top two partners. Still, Germany does make the top four, trailing Great Britain and China and Mexico
The vast majority of social media users ( 79 % ) say that using these sites to identify themselves is very or somewhat easy to do. Fewer say the same about sites being able to track people's views and activities, political affiliation or religious beliefs.
Around four-in-ten Americans ( 43 % ) approve of the way fitness tracker data is being used for medical research, while a similar share ( 37 % ) disapprove. People who have completed at least some college are more likely to approve of this type of data being used ( 39 % ) than those who have not completed college ( 31 % ).
By contrast, a majority of white evangelical Protestants ( 65 % ) say society has gone too far in accepting transgender people. This is one of several areas where the views of white mainline Protestants diverge significantly. For example, roughly eight-in-ten white mainline Protestant ( 79 % ) and white Catholics ( 85 % ) think society hasn't gone far enough in accepting people who are LGBT, while only 3 % say it's been too far.
Overwhelmingly, Chinese complain about the way things are going in their country ( 81 % ). Just 17 % say they are satisfied with the country's direction, while 41 % are dissatisfied. Those who like China are more likely to be dissatisfied than those who don't like either country ( 50 % vs. 37 % enthusiastic ).
The number of naturalized citizens reached 10.8 million in 2016, up from 9.3 million in 2012. In a year when immigration played a central role in the presidential campaign, turnout among naturalized-citizen voters ( those who were immigrants born in another country who have naturalized to become U.S. citizens ) was 54.3 %, up sharply from 34.6 % in 2012, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data. The higher turnout rates among foreign-born citizens were driven by immigration. The voter turnout rate among native-educated citizens trailed that of all US. immigrants
Not only are college-educated Latinos more likely to be married by age 30 than by the birth of their children, this trend is especially pronounced among those with a high school education or less. In 1990, 75 % of college- educated Latinos were married, compared with 60 % of those who had not completed college.
Across eight questions, majorities of both the general public and the video-sharing public say video games are a waste of time ( 47 % and 47 %, respectively ) and help develop good problem solving good skills ( 37 % ). And while 47 % of the public says video games promote teamwork and communication, just 20 % say they are a better form of entertainment than TV, which is roughly the same as the share who say this about TV and radio.
This report explores the new contours of friendship in the digital age. It covers the results of a national survey of teens ages 13 to 17 ; throughout the report, the word `` teens '' refers to those in that age bracket, unless otherwise specified. The survey was conducted online from Sept. 25 through Oct. 9, 2014, and Feb. 10 through March 16, 2015, and 16 online and in-person focus groups with teens were conducted in April 2014 and November 2014. For American teens, making friends isn't just confined to the school yard, playing field or neighborhood – many are making new friends online. Fully
A majority of those who live in rural areas ( 68 % ) say they can trust their neighbors a lot or some, but whites ( 73 % ) are the least likely to say so. The same is true of about six-in-ten black and Hispanic adults ( 62 % each ).
Digital video revenue continues to grow in billions. In 2012, digital video revenue was $ 26.04 billion, according to estimates by Kagan, a media research group in S & P Global Market Intelligence. This is up from $ 4.15 billion in 2010 and $ 4 billion in 2011.
In the Philippines, 45 % have a favorable view of Duterte, who is visiting the country for the first time since being elected in Duterte's controversial clashes with drug cartels and potential human rights violations in the country. A somewhat smaller majority ( 45 % ) holds a positive view of the Filipino leader.
People in other countries overwhelmingly see the U.S. response to the pandemic negatively. Across the 14 surveyed nations, a median of only 22 % say the United States did at least a somewhat good job dealing with the outbreak, while nearly as many ( 37 % ) say the response was very bad. A median of just 15 % of adults in the surveyed countries feel the same way, according to the Center's spring survey.
Black adults are more likely than other racial or ethnic groups to say they know someone who has been hospitalized or died due to the coronavirus ( 57 % vs. 39 % ). And a third of Black adults ( 32 % ) say the same – as do 39 % of Hispanic adults and 32 % of white adults.
Supporters of the Democratic People's Party (DP ) are more likely to express a favorable opinion of the U.S. than of China ( 82 % vs. 36 % ). And about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) of those who support the party are positive toward China. The question of whether China's nuclear program is a good thing or a bad thing is shared by only 36 % of both Taiwanese and Chinese registered voters.
A total of 38,901 Muslim refugees entered the U.S. in fiscal year 2016, making up almost half ( 46 % ) of the nearly 85,000 refugees who entered the country in that period, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the State Department's Refugee Processing Center. The vast majority of these refugees ( 85 % ) were Muslim, the highest number for any year since data on self-reported religious affiliations first became publicly available in 2002. Almost the same number of Christian ( 37,521 ) as Muslim refugees were admitted in fiscal 2016, which ended Sept. 30. A slightly
There are significant differences across occupational groups in the representation of blacks and Hispanics in STEM jobs. Among those who work in engineering and technology jobs, 69 % of black and 67 % of Hispanics are employed, compared with 68 % of whites and 55 % of Asians. Hispanics are underrepresented in health-religionists, physical science workers and math jobs.
Majorities in most places support expanding natural gas exploration and production ( 88 % ). By contrast, fewer than half of respondents in Indonesia ( 49 % ), South Korea ( 50 % ) and Russia ( 55 % ) support expanding coal mining.
Americans see `` very high '' health benefits from the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine. About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say this, compared with 28 % who say the vaccine has a `` somewhat good '' or `` very good '' effect. In thinking about the other health benefits, too, a majority of Americans ( 56 % ) see at least some risk from the vaccine.
At least half of the population in 11 of the 11 emerging economies surveyed do not have access to a home computer or tablet computer, either a smartphone or a desktop computer. A median of 47 % do have broadband at home, but only 47 % in Venezuela and 37 % in Colombia do.
Recession is driving more people back to work. Two years ago, nearly four-in-ten ( 42 % ) said the recession was a very big thing for their country, compared with 33 % who said the same about the recession.
Conservative Republicans are divided ( 47 % favor expanding the wall, 48 % oppose ), while just 26 % support it. Nearly eight-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 83 % ) and about half of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 49 % ) say the U.S. should expand the wall.
Americans are far more likely than gun owners to contact public officials about gun policy. Among those who say gun laws should be less strict, 15 % say they have ever contacted a public official to express an opinion on gun policy, including 22 % who say current laws are about as strict as they are today. Among gun owners, however, gun laws are much less strict : just 15 % of gun owners say laws are less strict today, compared with 22 % of non-gun owners.
Majorities in both major parties believe censorship is likely occurring, but this belief is especially common – and growing – among Republicans. Nine-in-ten Republicans and independents who lean toward the Republican Party say it's at least somewhat likely that social media platforms intentionally censor political viewpoints they find objectionable, up slightly from 85 % in 2018, when the Center last asked this question.
About six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 62 % ) say they would be uncomfortable being among the first to get a vaccine to prevent COVID-19 if they were told they had to do so, while far more ( 37 % ) express concern over not being able to get vaccinated. The vast majority of parents and non-parents who have personally heard about this proposal say either they would definitely or probably not be comfortable ( 82 % among those who would definitely get vaccinated ) or probably would not ( 35 % ).
For internet users in sub-Saharan Africa, staying in touch with family and friends is the most common activity. Across the region, about half of internet users ( 53 % ) say they have used the web to get information about the health care system, while 41 % say the same about taking an online class or searching for a job.
Those who live close friends or family are more likely than those who do not to receive money from a close friend or family member in the U.S. or Canada. Almost eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) of those who live closest to a family member say they get money from either family members or close friends. That is nearly double the share ( 22 % ) who say the same about their own phone calls or texts from family or friends.
A survey this summer by Pew Research Center found that women are more likely than men to say gender discrimination is a major problem in the technology industry ( 44 % vs. 29 % ). And when asked about a minor problem facing the tech industry, 44 % of women say women face discrimination at least a minor amount, compared with 29 % of men. Among male respondents, about three-in-ten see gender discrimination in the same light.
There were wide gaps across the two major parties : 55 % of Democratic members and 34 % of Republican members made posts about the topic. In both parties, the shares of women who discussed sexual misconduct on Facebook were 30 percentage points larger than the shares who did so in the previous month ( 46 % vs. 46 % ).
Meanwhile, the public continues to express divided views about whether North Korea is serious about addressing its nuclear program. About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say North Korea's leadership is not serious in addressing international concerns about the country's nuclear enrichment program, while 28 % say North Korean leaders are serious and just 11 % say they are not serious. These views are little changed over the last few years.
Millennials make up a majority of the nation's electorate, at least half of U.S. voters ages 65 and older. The oldest members of the party are 60 and older, while the majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are at least 30 years old.
College grads are more likely than those with less education to say financial regs have been too expensive. Roughly half of college graduates ( 52 % ) say the government has gone too far, compared with just 34 % of those with a high school diploma or less.
There are substantial ideological differences across generations on many of these issues. For example, Republicans and Republican leaners are divided about the ideological direction of the party ( 35 % say conservative, 34 % moderate ). But just 5 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say the GOP is liberal, while 37 % say it is conservative.
Many Germans see the U.S. as their country's top foreign policy partner, while Americans feel the same way about the EU. When asked which countries are their most important partners after the presidential election, Germans name France more than any other country, but the United Kingdom is the most common choice. Around a quarter of Germans ( 27 % ) name the United States as the most important partner after the election, roughly double the share who say this about China ( 14 % ) and Israel ( 10 % ).
Fully 72 % of Republicans say that using overwhelming force is the best way to defeat terrorism. Among Democrats, just 27 % favor the use of overwhelming military force, while 66 % say relying too much on military force creates hatred that leads to more terrorism.
As Germany expands its international role, the vast majority of people in both countries say they have confidence in Merkel's capacity to do the right thing on the world stage. This includes more than eight-in-ten or more in Canada, the U.S., Netherlands, Sweden and Belgium.
9 Americans consider the right to vote an important part of their sense of freedom. In a 2014 Pew Research Center survey, nearly nine-in-ten U.S. adults ( 87 % ) said `` voting is essential to my feeling of freedom, but not essential. '' Just 8 % said voting would be essential, and 12 % said it would be not important.
Democrats are deeply skeptical that a wall along the entire border with Mexico would lead to a reduction in illegal immigration into the U.S. Nearly seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 71 % ) say this, compared with just 13 % of Republicans and Republican leaners. A large majority of conservative Republicans ( 65 % ) – as well as a majority of moderate and liberal Republicans ( 55 % – say a wall would result in a major reduction in legal immigration.
Roughly seven-in-ten Indians approve of Modi's record in Kashmir ( 42 % ), including an equal number who approve of his handling of the issue. Meanwhile, a majority of Pakistanis ( 60 % ) disapprove of the way Prime Minister Modi is handling the situation in the Kashmir region.
3 Americans are more likely to prioritize greater cooperation with Germany than Germans are to prioritize increased cooperation with the U.S. About three-quarters of Germans ( 76 % ) want more cooperation with France, Japan and China. Instead, Germans are most likely to say they want greater cooperation among Russia and China ( 77 % each ).
The public offers mixed views of the government's aid to the poor in general ( 46 % approve and 44 % disapprove ). About as many ( 44 % ) say the government provides only about a little ( 26 % ) as 46 % think it is a good thing because it provides so much ( 7 % say it is bad ).
In the predominantly Muslim countries surveyed, Muslims are divided between being a Muslim and living in a modern society. Muslims in particular are most likely to see Islam as a threat to their religious identity – a median of 58 % among Muslims in Germany, Spain, Russia and Great Britain say this. But British Muslims ( 56 % ) are also divided along sectarian lines, as are Spanish Muslims ( 54 % ).
An estimated 853,000 Hispanics of Cuban origin lived in the United States in 2017, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey. Hispanics in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Cuban origin ; this includes immigrants from Cuba and those who trace their family ancestry to Cuba. Cubans are the 14th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in United States, accounting for 2 % of the 1.4 million Hispanics living in the country in 2017. Since 2000, theCuban-origin population has increased 148 %, growing from 853
Few Americans name Germany as their country's most or second-most important foreign policy partner, but about a third of Germans name the United Kingdom ( 35 % ) as one of their top two foreign affairs partners, in keeping with the growing share of Americans who say the same about China ( 26 % ) and Canada ( 25 % ).
Although the public is somewhat ambivalent on whether colleges and universities are responsible for preparing the American workforce, a majority ( 67 % ) say a four-year degree prepares someone at least somewhat well for a well-paying job in today's economy. Democrats and Democratic leaners were more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners to say this ( 73 % vs. 62 % ) in the 2016 survey, though Republican views on how colleges and media affect the country have changed dramatically over the past two years.
When it comes to specific types of support for older adults, the vast majority of caregivers are providing help to their own adult for years to come. Roughly one-in-five caregivers ( 22 % ) say they provide help to a family member or close friend who is 3 to 4 years old or less often, and 17 % say they do so for themselves or their children.
The survey finds that AAAS scientists see funding about as difficult as it was five years ago. About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) scientists say funding for their research is harder today than it was ten years ago, while 43 % say it is about the same and 43 % report that it is no more difficult. The share saying that funding is harder is higher than for the industry is due to the fact that the science community is relying less on federal funding. About half ( 53 % ) of scientists say this, compared with 43 % who said the industry has grown about seven times as much funding as it has in
Education is also tied to views of labor unions : Among Republicans and Republican leaners, 51 % have a favorable view of unions, compared with 42 % who have an unfavorable view. Conservative Republicans ( 65 % ) are also more likely than moderate and liberal Republicans ( 45 % ) to view unions favorably.
Publics in emerging markets are less positive about their economy. A median of 50 % across the eight emerging markets surveyed say their economy is doing well, while a median of 40 % say it is doing not well.
Differences on political and social issues are most common in Latin America and the Caribbean, according to a 2014 Pew Research Center survey of 39 countries. Majorities or pluralities in several of the 39 countries surveyedude to the Chile question, including more than four-in-ten or more in Argentina, Brazil, Argentina, Mexico and Ukraine.
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2013 found that roughly four-in-ten lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender adults ( 52 % ) said they would marry if they had the opportunity, while roughly a third ( 33 % ) of bisexual men and 25 % of lesbians said the same. The survey also found that LGBT adults who are single are more likely than those who are not to get married to say they would stay married if the opportunity presented. About one-third ( 32 % ) gay men and lesbians ( 30 % ) were in favor of getting married, compared with 12 % of bisexual adults and just 3 % of
Israeli Arabs are divided about whether or not a way can be found for Israel and the Palestinian territories to coexist peacefully : 45 % say they think this can happen, while 42 % do not think so. The share who say a two-state solution in the Middle East would be acceptable has increased from 43 % in the past year to 45 % today.
Nearly half of Americans ( 51 % ) say local news outlets are a major source of news about the coronavirus outbreak. That's nearly identical to the share who say the same about public health organizations ( 46 % ), state and local elected officials ( 45 % ) and Trump and the presidential task force ( 44 % ).
There also is widespread disappointment among Muslims that Iraq did not put up more of a fight against the U.S. and its allies. Overwhelming majorities in Morocco ( 93 % ), Jordan ( 91 % ) ), Lebanon ( 82 % ) and Turkey ( 81 % ) say they are disappointed the Iraqi military put up so little resistance, as do roughly six-in-ten Muslims in the Palestinian territories ( 59 % ). Many others around the world share that view, including people in South Korea ( 58 % angry ), Brazilians ( 50 % ) or Russia ( 45 % ) in the view that Iraqi troops put
Though ratings for the EU are generally positive, there are widespread concerns about how the EU is handling its economy. In Greece, Spain and Italy, where about six-in-ten or more disapprove of the EU's handling of the economy, Euroskeptic parties in both countries are particularly critical. Roughly two-thirds in Spain ( 66 % ) and 59 % in Germany say the EU has a bad influence on the way things are going in Europe. This is particularly true in Italy and Spain – two southern European nations that have struggled economically over the past decade – although the share of those who disapprove is considerably lower in
Nearly four-in-ten voters ( 43 % ) say it is at least somewhat important for Trump to make good decisions about economic policy, while 35 % say it would be very important for Biden to handle the public health impact of the coronavirus outbreak ( 35 % each ). Biden voters are similarly divided on how Trump would handle the economic crisis ( 44 % Biden, 35 % Trump ). And a larger share of voters say Trump would be less likely to bring the country closer together than Biden would be ( 45 % vs. 23 % ).
Americans expect a range of scientific and technological developments ahead. But the public is divided over the prospects for space tourism in the next 50 years. Half ( 50 % ) believe this will happen while half are skeptical this will be routine for ordinary people. About a third of Americans ( 32 % ) expect that colonies on other planets – habitable for long periods of time – will be built by the year 2068, while two-thirds ( 67 % ) doubt this will occur.
Just as majorities of Americans say they are not at all or not too confident that companies would publicly admit to misusing users'data. Only about two-thirds of U.S. adults ( 65 % ) say companies would take responsibility for their own data misuse as a result of government intervention. About as many ( 66 % ) do not think companies would be held accountable by the government if their personal information has been misused or compromised.
Mobile app users are also more likely to be concerned about the government's monitoring of their own digital behavior. Some 37 % of mobile app users say they are very worried that the government might monitor their own behavior on social media, while 39 % say the same about search engines.
Despite these mixed views, most Pakistanis believe the government is making significant progress in their fight against extremists. More than seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) believe Pakistanis are making progress against extremists, up from 59 % in 2014. However, less than half in both Pakistanis ( 45 % ) and the public ( 51 % ) support the government's policy of dealing with the extremists.
Age is strongly correlated with internet adoption : Those ages 18 to 29 have always been the least likely users of the internet, but Seniors stand out when it comes to internet adoption rates. Fully 92 % of 18 - 29 year-olds used the internet in 2015, compared with a 55 % majority of those ages 30 - 49 and a quarter of those 50 and older.
Overall, 51 % of Americans say they approve of the way Trump is handling his job as president, while 51 % disapprove. That is little changed from April. Among Christian groups, white evangelical Protestants who are not evangelical are as likely to approve ( 54 % ) as disapprove ( 45 % ) of Trump's job performance.
Beyond the examples noted above, Americans anticipate significant changes to the nature of jobs and work in the coming decades as a result of automation. Overall, roughly three-quarters of Americans ( 77 % ) think it's realistic that robots and computers might one day be able to do many of the jobs currently done by humans, with 20 % describing this prospect as extremely realistic. And substantial shares of Americans anticipate that automation will impact a number of specific career fields over the course of their lifetimes. Sizable majorities expect that jobs such as fast food workers and insurance claims processors will be mostly performed by machines during that timeframe, while around
While Republicans are divided in their views of the possible withdrawal of U.S. troops, Democrats are particularly likely to be supportive : 79 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners favor a withdrawal, compared with 48 % of Republicans and Republican leaners.
For instance, 88 % of Americans favor government help for homeowners and renters, and 76 % say the federal government should provide additional tax cuts and loans to businesses. A smaller share ( 25 % ) favors government providing financial assistance to local governments.
Love tops the list of Americans'reasons to marry. About nine-in-ten Americans ( 88 % ) cited love as a very important reason to get married, ahead of making a lifelong commitment ( 76 % ) and having legal benefits and benefits ( 70 % ). Fewer said having their relationship recognized in a religious recognized ceremony ( 30 % ), having children recognized by a religious organization ( 22 % ) or having a religious ceremony ( 15 % ) were very important reasons to get Married.
About six-in-ten Americans ages 18 to 29 say the primary way they watch television now is with streaming services on the internet. Much smaller shares of older Americans cite online streaming services as their primary way of watching TV ; older Americans tend to rely on cable connections. Overall, just 28 % of Americans cite streaming services when they watch TV.
The middle groups in the typology are also less predictable. Roughly a quarter of Solid Liberals ( 24 % ) and Hard-Pressed Skeptics ( 19 % ) say they like the political typology, while 16 % say they do not like it.
The 2013 Pew Research Center poll revealed a mixed pattern of public opinion when it comes to the U.S., China and Russia. Majorities or pluralities in 31 of 44 countries surveyed said the American people had a bad influence on their country's direction. By contrast, 55 % of Bangladeshis, 59 % of South Africans and 65 % of Pakistanis held this view.
As the president hit the road to shore up the Democrats'faltering fortunes, the share of Democrats supporting him is little changed from last year. More Democrats now say their vote is for Obama ( 48 % ) than for Romney ( 45 % ) – and that is a greater percentage than for the GOP ( 41 % ). As in the past, partisan divisions are reflected in the new survey. Currently, 54 % of Democrats are supporting Obama as the party's nominee, compared with 54 % who were against Romney at this point four years ago.
People in many countries have a favorable view of both the U.S. and China. This includes roughly half or more in Kenya ( 48 % ), the Philippines ( 54 % ) and Nigeria ( 51 % ). People in seven of the six countries surveyed also express positive views of China.
Pope Francis is a popular figure in many countries. In Poland ( where a majority of the public has a favorable view of Pope Francis ), about seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) give him a positive rating, including 37 % who have a favorable opinion of the pope. In the U.S., ratings for the pope are divided in several major Middle Eastern countries, although in certain countries as well, majorities or pluralities express positive views of Francis. For example, in Bangladesh ( 92 % favorable ), 7 % have a positive view of the Asian leader ; only 24 % have an unfavorable view of him.
The six religious groups that make up 70 % of U.S. voters – Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses and evangelical Protestants – are more likely than other religious groups to express a mix of liberal and conservative views. And roughly a third ( 35 % ) of those who are religiously unaffiliated say the same, while 13 % say they are atheist and 10 % agnostic.
About a third ( 34 % ) followed news about Massa and Iraq very closely ; 4 % say this was the news they followed most closely. News about Iraq accounted for 3 % of coverage.
Scientists'views about the state of science today are Associated with a sense of influence on policy. A majority of AAAS scientists ( 62 % ) think this is a good time for science to be working on scientific issues. Just 55 % say this is an unfavorable view. Similarly, large majorities of scientists see increased land use regulations ( 60 % ), new drug and medical treatments ( 55 % ) and new food safety regulations ( 54 % ) as good for science.
By seven-to-one ( 80 % to 29 % ), Hispanics in 2007 said they are more likely than whites to live in the U.S. legally. Among blacks, nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) said they think immigrants want to stay in the country, as did 29 % of whites. However, Hispanics across the board were more likely to say that they want to migrate internationally ( 40 % to 28 % ) than American Indians ( 22 % to 25 % ).
Within these countries, those who have favorable views of right-wing populist parties are slightly more likely to have a positive opinion of the economy. A similar pattern emerges in the Netherlands, where those who support the Danish People's Party ( PVV ) are about evenly divided compared with those who do not support the party.
Nearly two-thirds of the public says there are either very strong ( 27 % ) or strong conflicts 38 % ) between blacks and whites in America today. About a quarter ( 26 % ) say there are `` not very strong conflicts, '' and just 4 % say they are neutral, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Nov. 29-Dec. 5. Historically, conflicts have occurred as strong as strong majorities of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents.
Mobile phones are viewed as having a more positive personal impact than social media in 11 countries. When asked if having mobile phones – whether having phones in particular – is a good thing or a bad thing for the country, a median of 57 % across 11 countries surveyed say mobile phones have a mostly positive impact.
Americans and Germans diverge on whether their country should cooperate more with other world powers or with Russia. Roughly eight-in-ten Americans ( 78 % ) say their U.S. should collaborate more with Great Britain, France and Germany. A smaller majority of Germans ( 56 % ) share this view.
About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the Tea Party more closely than any other major story. This is by far the most closely followed news story for the week. News about the tea party accounted for 5 % of coverage last week, according to PEJ.
Public support for trade and multinational corporations and the lack of enthusiasm for protesters does not mean that people necessarily reject critics'concerns. Majorities, in most cases strong majorities, in 34 of 44 nations thought the availability of good paying jobs had gotten worse in the last five years. And substantial majorities–82 % in France, 67 % in the United States, 63 % in Mexico–thought the gap between the rich and the poor had worsened. But, unlike trade's critics, the public did not blame globalization for these problems. People attributed such difficulties to domestic factors.
Most users say they have ever used a dating site or app. Among those who have used these platforms, the vast majority ( 96 % ) say that it was easy to find other users they found attractive and shared their interests. About six-in-ten say the same about sharing their hobbies and interests ( 61 % ).
Publics in the Middle East overwhelmingly see Russia as playing a more important role in the region today compared with 10 years ago. About two-thirds ( 64 % ) say Russia plays a less important and powerful role as a Middle East ally today than it did a decade ago. Middle Eastern publics are also divided over the impact of Iran and the U.S. on the region. About four-in-ten in Iran ( 41 % ) and Israel ( 41 percentage ) say Iran plays a more influential role today compared it was a decade or less ago. Saudi Arabia ( 41 points ) is the only region surveyed where a
Shifting attitudes toward China are also reflected in the public's views of the economy. Across the 10 nations surveyed, a median of 56 % say China plays a more important role than 10 years ago. And nearly as many ( 59 % ) say that China should be protected against foreign influence, a good thing. Concerns about territorial disputes with neighbors could lead to a military conflict, while 56 % believe China should deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their own problems as best they can.
The survey also asked Americans to rate the scientific achievements of scientists compared with other industrial countries. For example, 92 % of adults and members of the American Association for the Advancement of Science said scientific achievements in medical treatment and K-12 education in the U.S. are above average ( 92 % ), while just 6 % of AAAS scientists rated scientific achievements as below average ( 35 % ) or poor ( 20 % ).
Nonetheless, most Pakistanis ( 86 % ), Nigerians ( 84 % ) and Chileans ( 69 % ) want an uncensored internet connection. Only in the Palestinian territories ( 76 % ) do more than half want internet access.
Pluralities of Republicans and Democrats favor keeping Defense spending about the same as it is today. But the public is divided on whether the U.S. should rely on military strength to achieve its foreign policy goals. Half of Republicans say spending on national defense should be increased, while just 12 % say it should be decreased. There are about three-quarters of Democrats ( 77 % ) and independents ( 78 % ) who favor decreasing defense spending.
The survey also asked Republicans and Republican leaning independents to weigh in on issues such as homosexuality and immigration. A majority of Millennial Republicans ( 64 % ) say that homosexuality should be accepted by society, while 50 % of those 50 and older say the same. By contrast, just 39 % of Republican voters who came of age after the pandemic and who identify as Republican or lean Republican are opposed to homosexuality.
People in the Trans Pacific region tend to favor strong economic ties with the U.S. because it is the world's leading economic power. A median of 49 % across these countries say the same, while just 4 % say they would prefer strong ties with China. Majorities or pluralities in 10 of the 11 countries surveyed hold this view.
In 2015, hourly earnings for white men were $ 26,359 compared with $ 21,640 for Asian men. This pay gap was almost identical to the median earnings of black men, $ 21.30 billion in 2015, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data. In addition, men in this age group were much more likely than their Asian counterparts to have been paid more than their male counterparts. Roughly three-quarters of men ages 18 to 29 ( 74 % ) reported that they had earned at least a bachelor's degree the same year before their retirement, compared with 54 % of Asian
One factor driving dissatisfaction with the way things are going in the country was the belief that quick solutions, even if risky, would be the best way to solve the major problems facing the country. Nearly eight-in-ten Trump supporters ( 78 % ) and Clinton supporters ( 84 % ) said this, compared with just 37 % of Trump supporters.
Majorities across the political spectrum say censorship is likely occurring. About six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 63 % ) say social media sites likely censor political views they find objectionable, while just 15 % say this is very likely. Democrats are more likely than Republicans to think this is likely ( 70 % vs. 54 % ).
As was the case with several news magazines, the Republican side is much more conservative than the Democratic side. About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Republicans who watch CNN and Fox News magazines say they are conservative, compared with 53 % of independents who do watch these magazines. Republicans who turn to CNN are also more likely than those who watch Fox News ( 27 % vs. 30 % ) to say they see it as liberal.
However, no such age differential appears on the question of whether Muslims in France want either to be distinct from the larger culture or to adopt its customs. Nearly eight-in-ten French Muslims ( 78 % ) say they want to adopt French customs. Those under age 35 are equally as likely to say this as are their elders. This high preference for assimilation compares with that expressed by 53 % of Muslims in Spain, 41 % in Britain and 30 % in Germany.
In all 10 European countries surveyed,Millennials are more likely than their U.S. counterparts to say hard work and education are very important to getting ahead in life. Roughly three-quarters of young Germans ( 73 % ) and Italians ( 57 % ) say the same, compared with 42 % of young Americans and 55 % of those 50 and older.
The number of assaults against Muslims in the U.S. rose to its highest level since the September 11 terrorist attacks, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of new hate crimes statistics from the FBI. In 2016, there were 127 reported victims of aggravated or simple assault, compared with 91 the year before and 87 in 2001.
Turnout in the 2006 midterm election may well be higher than normal, given the level of interest expressed by voters. Today, 51 % of voters say they have given a lot of thought to this November's election, up from 45 % at this point in 2002 and 42 % in early October of 1998. Even in 1994 – a recent high in midterm election turnout – just 44 % of registered voters had thought a lot about the election in mid-October.
Self-identified Christians make up a majority of Republican voters as of 2019. This is a increase from 2014, when atheists and agnostics made up 15 % of GOP voters. Other religious groups account for a small share of registered voters ( 6 % ) : Catholics ( 16 % ) and Protestants ( 15 % ) make up similar shares of the GOP electorate.
In 2003, an overwhelming majority of Japanese women ( 81 % ) opposed the Japanese government's plan to allow female members of the Imperial House to rise to the post. Only 19 % of Japanese men supported such a change, while 54 % of women said they would favor it. In 2003, the percentage of Japanese who had a college degree or less rose to 73 %, while the share of those with no more than a high school degree ( 30 % ) declined by 13 percentage points.
Fathers have reduced their work hours a little more than mothers in the COVID-19 downturn. About four-in-ten fathers ( 43.2 % ) say they have reduced the amount of time they spend with their children, compared with 35.6 % of mothers who said the same. Among fathers, the share saying they have cut their hours is 43.5 %. Reflecting the gender gap in childcare, mothers with children younger than 3 are spending more time caring for their children than fathers.
Black, Hispanic and older voters are more likely than White voters to say it is very or somewhat important to get messages from presidential campaigns. About two-thirds of Black ( 57 % ) and Hispanic ( 65 % ) voters say this, compared with 55 % of White voters.
There are also wide racial and ethnic differences in views of capitalism. Nearly three-quarters of whites ( 74 % ) think of capitalism as a `` socialism '' and just 21 % say it is `` capitalism. '' By contrast, just 7 % of blacks and 10 % of Hispanics say capitalism is a mix.
Not only are working mothers and fathers making significant difference in career Advancement, working fathers are also making a difference in their own careers. Among working mothers, 51 % advance up the career ladder over the past 15 years, while 51 % do so among working fathers.
The Islamic militant group known as ISIS has emerged as a major threat to the well-being of the United States around the world. Here are five key findings about the U.S. response : ISIS is named as the world's top terrorist organization by six-in-ten adults ( 62 % ), as well as cyberattacks from other countries ( 51 % ).
Nonetheless, most Republicans and Republican-leaning independents want to see their representatives work to repeal the health care law. Roughly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of Republicans say they would rather see their lawmakers work to improve the law, while 32 % want to keep working to maintain the ACA.
Overall, 63 % of Americans say the SNRA has too much and the right amount of influence, while 34 % say it has too little influence. The share of those who say the NRA has not has enough influence is nearly identical to the share who say this among all gun owners ( 29 % vs. 29 % ). About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) who are SNRA member say the group has too few influence and 28 % say the influence is about the right. Among those who don't belong to the NRA, views are more divided : 50 % say SNRA is too much, 34 %
A growing share of voters say they have seen news organizations publishing made-up information about the election, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in July and August. About two-thirds of registered voters ( 64 % ) say they've seen the news sources they turn to most often present factual information that favors one side of an issue in coverage of the 2020 election. That is nearly double the share ( 22 % ) among voters who say their own news sources have been reported as misleading.
Three-quarters of Americans ( 76 % ) say climate change is a major threat to the well-being of the nation, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted this spring. But just 27 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents share that view, while 56 % of Republicans and Republican leaners do.
Interestingly, the Per cent who cite rising prices as the biggest problem for the country are far more likely to cite the availability of such drugs as a major national problem. A Eurobarometer survey conducted last year by the Pew Research Center found that among the eight most pressing issues for the public, drug-related violence is the second-highest cited cited by just 8 % of adults.
Americans are less accepting of homosexuality than people in other major Western countries, and less so in France and Germany. About six-in-ten in the U.S. ( 61 % ) disapprove of homosexuality as a moral issue, less so than in Greece ( 66 % ), Poland ( 62 % ) and the Czech Republic ( 60 % ).
Average audience for Sunday morning political talk shows ( CNN, Fox News and MSNBC ) increased 4 % in 2018, to about 1.25 million from 1.6 million in 2017. The average audience ( defined as the average number of TVs tuned to a program throughout a time period ) for these programs was 4.2 million, about the same as in 2017 ( 4.5 million ).
People's faith and skepticism about trade and foreign investment also emerge. Globally, a median of 77 % say trade is a good thing for developing economies and 73 % say it is bad for the country. But people in advanced economies are less convinced, especially in Germany and Greece, where publics are strongly opposed to trade and investment.
Mobile phone users are especially likely to say their devices help them get news : 11 % believe their phones have a good influence on their get news, compared with 8 % who say they are worried about false or incorrect information. At the same time, a median of 44 % of adults across the 11 countries surveyed say people should be very worried about misinformation about their phones, even if it caused them to lose their jobs. People are more likely to express concern about misinformation than not when it comes to mobile phones.
Chinese President Xi Jinping is visiting the U.S. for what has become known as the `` Three Amigos Summit '' with President Donald Trump and Indian Prime Minister Modi. It comes as Trump prepares to meet in New York to discuss, among other top leaders, climate change – a top concern for some Americans. But a Pew Research Center survey conducted in spring 2019 finds that, for the most part, Americans lack confidence in the Chinese leader. About one-in-five ( 21 % ) say they have no confidence in Xi, while 27 % say they trust him to do the right thing.
Seven-in-ten voters ( 70 % ) say it is very or somewhat important to hear from either Trump or Biden campaigns, an increase from June's 78 % who said this. The vast majority of voters ( 84 % ) said this in an April survey, including 70 % who had heard from both campaigns.
Americans are more supportive of direct U.S. talks with North Korea than they were in the summer of 2015. About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) approve of direct talks between the United States and North Korea, while just 28 % disapprove. At the same time, the share who favor direct talks has fallen from 65 % in 2015 to 32 % today.
Smart speakers such as Amazon Echo or Google Home have come to define the role of women in American society. Most U.S. adults ( 54 % ) say they at least occasionally say that they would like to be able to talk to their devices, but this varies by gender and race. Women are more likely than men to say this ( 56 % vs. 46 % ), as are men when compared with 37 % of women.
About one-in-five LGBT adults ( 19 % ) say the Muslim religion is unfriendly toward them, a slightly higher share than for other religious groups, such as the Catholic Church ( 84 % ), the Protestant Church ( 83 % ) and the Catholic church ( 73 % ).
About three-in-ten each say they followed news about swine flu and the aftermath of the November 11th earthquake and tsunami very closely. The crash accounted for 4 % of coverage, according to PEJ.
Democrats and Republicans have widely different views on the impact of gun ownership on crime. More than eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 64 % ) say that if more Americans owned guns, there would be more crime in the U.S. Republicans and Republican leaners are more divided ( 47 % say there would been more crime, 44 % fewer ).
Nearly four-in-ten black adults ( 42 % ) say they personally know someone who has been hospitalized or died from the coronavirus, including 22 % who say they are very likely to do so. This compares with 24 % of white Americans and 14 % of Hispanic adults.
According to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in February and March, nearly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Hispanics say the Obama administration has deported more illegal immigrants than the George W. Bush administration had deported. By contrast, just 25 % of the foreign born and 21 % of U.S. citizens say the administration has not deported enough immigrants.
Most Americans ( 80 % ) say libraries should definitely or probably have programs to teach people digital skills – 80 % say this, while just 25 % say they should not. About half ( 52 % ) of adults ages 16 and older say libraries do not have programs like these for teaching digital skills, and this is especially true in the case of reading rooms and technology centers.
The increase in the annual number of U.S. births is largely attributable to an increase in immigrant women's nativity. In 1970, 3.74 million more births were due to an immigrant woman's birth, compared with 3.10 million who were born in the United States. However, the number of newly arrived immigrant women has increased by 4 % since 1970, to 4.4 million in 2016. This is an increase from 3.7 million in 1970. In addition, immigrant women are more likely to have had at least one spouse whose nativity was different from the one in the previous three decades (
In 2013, a record-high 12 % of high school graduates were Hispanic, making those graduates the most racially and ethnically diverse group in the history. The share of Hispanic graduates in high school grew from 8 % in 2013 to 25 % in 2014. Most of this increase in Hispanic graduates came from college graduates who were highly educated.
Overall, a majority of Americans ( 55 % ) say the availability of good jobs in the U.S. is about the same as it is today, while 36 % say it is bad jobs. Fewer ( 39 % ) think `` good jobs are available where they live. ''
When asked what they would do if one of their allies in Asia used military force to defend them, the Filipino public is evenly divided. About two-thirds ( 68 % ) say they would not use military force against China, while a similar share ( 58 % ) would not defend China. And only about a third ( 34 % ) of Americans support using military force as a response to a potential conflict with China. When asked about the U.S. and China's policies should apply to each other, Filipinos are more divided on this question. While 68 % of Filipinos in the Philippines say the United States would
About half ( 51 % ) say immigrants today strengthen the country because of their hard work and talents, while 41 % say immigrants are a burden because they take jobs, housing and health care. The share saying that immigrants strengthen the nation has declined six percentage points since last year.
Most Germans want to remain close with Europe, but few want more foreign policy independence. Nearly seven-in-ten Germans ( 72 % ) want their country to be more independent from the U.S., while 24 % want it to remain `` close to the EU. ''
Majorities of veterans say the military and the military have done a good job preparing them for their transition to civilian life. About nine-in-ten ( 91 % ) say veterans who have served in the post-9/11 era are generally or somewhat better educated than those who haven't.
About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they followed news about the oil leak very closely, while 6 % say this about the government's regulation of financial institutions. The leak accounted for 4 % of coverage last week, according to PEJ.
More than eight-in-ten in Poland ( 58 % ) and the Czech Republic ( 54 % ) offered critical opinions of Russia. And ratings of Russia were even worse among Western European publics. Majorities in France ( 65 % ), Germany ( 62 % ) ), and Sweden ( 59 % ) expressed an unfavorable view of the Russian government.
Overall, about one-third of all college graduates ( 35 % ) report that they have student debt, the highest rate among all age groups. Young adults, those with postgraduate degrees and those with high school diploma or less are still far and away the least likely to report student debt.
Hungarians are more worried about the impact of refugees on their country than other Europeans. When asked if they feel threatened or burdened by refugees because they take their jobs and social ties, nearly six-in-tenHungarians ( 58 % ) say they feel very threatened. Refugees the will increase the likelihood of terrorism in their country, while just 38 % say they are somewhat threatened. In fact, the UNHCR estimates that Hungary's handling of the refugee issue increases the likelihood that terrorism will increase over the next 12 months.
Americans and Germans diverge on whether the U.S. should cooperate more with other world powers or more with China. Nearly seven-in-ten Americans ( 68 % ) say U.W. interests should be greater with Germany, while just 20 % say the same about Great Britain ( 21 % ) and France ( 14 % ). Germans are also more likely than Americans to want greater cooperation with other major powers. Nearly two-thirds of Germans ( 65 % ) want to collaborate more with Russia, while only 44 % of Americans want this to happen. When asked about their own country's role in world affairs,
About four-in-ten Republicans ( 42 % ) say Hamas is Responsible for violence in the U.S., while a similar share ( 35 % ) says the terrorist organization is not ResponsIBLE for violence. Democrats are divided ( 46 % Responsible, 35 % not Responsable ).
While it's relatively rare for partisans to say this, about four-in-ten Black adults ( 44 % ) are at least somewhat likely to talk about the coronavirus at least a few times a month, compared with 39 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners. There are also differences in these rates across demographic groups. Black adults are far more likely than either white or Hispanic adults to say they talk about COVID-19 at all frequently ( 50 % vs. 38 % ). By comparison, white adults ( 50 percentage points ) are about twice as likely as Hispanic adults ( 39 % ) or black adults (
Political posts that opposed other politicians and groups were most likely to receive angry reactions than those that did not oppose them ( 4.1 % vs. 3.7 % ). And while a majority of social media users ( 58 % ) continued to post about political issues on social media, only about a quarter ( 26 % ) of those who didn't oppose other politicians posts and said they were angry reactions were deleted.
When asked about eight potential threats to their country, the public is most likely to name Islamic extremist groups as a major threat ( 56 % ). About half ( 52 % ) say the same about Iran's nuclear program, which was one of the top threats tested in the spring survey. Most Pakistanis ( 54 % ) also see international power and influence as major threats.
About eight-in-ten Russians ( 81 % ) say that suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilians in the name of Islam are very or somewhat opposed by Muslims living in Russia, according to a new Pew Research Center survey of Russia and other regions of Russia. An additional 21 % say such attacks are not too or not at all opposed.
That is a more positive verdict from Germany, where 94 % of the public says that foreign business owners building new factories in Germany would be a good thing for the country, compared with only 43 % who say such business owners would be bad news for Germany. In contrast, majorities in France ( 72 % ), Spain ( 59 % ) and Italy ( 56 % ) say that foreign businesses would be good news.
The public's views of the federal government's efforts to prevent Snowden from becoming a national security threat have become more negative in recent years. In a February survey by the Pew Research Center, 42 % of Americans said they viewed the efforts of the U.S. government to apprehend Snowden as a major threat to the well-being of the country. Fewer ( 42 % ) said the Snowden story was a good thing or a bad thing.
Love life varies substantially by age. Roughly three-in-ten social media users ages 18 to 29 ( 28 % ) say they post about their love life, but just 14 % of those ages 65 and older say the same. The share of 18- to 29-year-olds who report using social media is even lower among those ages 30 to 49 ( 26 % ). This is true of a majority of users who are single ( 48 % ) or who are in a committed relationship ( 30 % ), but the share of those who report being married ( 24 % ) is higher among those who are Single (
Seven-in-ten rural internet users ( 79 % ) say they have access to the internet at their household, compared with 58 % of suburban and urban residents who do not. The internet use among rural residents is also less widespread : 88 % of rural residents say they personally use the internet from anywhere, while 79 % of urban and suburban residents say the same.
There also are striking educational differences in partisans'views of global warming. Among Republicans, higher education is linked to greater skepticism about global warming — fully 75 % of Republicans with a college degree say that there is no evidence of global climate change, compared with 52 % of those with less education. But among Democrats, the pattern is the reverse. Fully 75 % among Democrats with a high school diploma or less believe that there has been solid global warming in the past few years. This is far higher than among Democrats who have less education among whom 52 % say the same. Independents, regardless of education levels, fall in between
Tea Party Republicans are far more likely than Democrats to have unfavorable opinions of the Tea Party. A majority of Tea Party Republicans ( 65 % ) say they view the party as conservative, compared with 42 % of moderate and liberal Republicans and 16 % of conservative Republicans. Among Republicans, however, 35 % view the tea party as liberal, while 41 % say they are not conservative.
Fully 53 % of teen girls say they have blocked or unfriended an ex-friend, compared with 35 % of boys. Girls are also more likely than boys to take steps to untag photos of themselves and someone they used to be friends with.
Roughly six-in-ten Indians ( 62 % ) see the situation in Kashmir as a very big problem, and a similar share ( 55 % ) say the government should use more military force in the country to fight terrorism. The share who say terrorism has gotten too big in India has declined from 65 % in 2013 to 55 % today. And among those who say the economic crisis is a major threat to their country, a greater share of Indians ( 53 % ) are concerned about terrorism.
In the wake of President Donald Trump's announcement that the United States would withdraw troops from Syria, the public is divided over the issue, and about two-thirds say they do not think Trump has a clear plan for dealing with the situation in the war-torn country. Overall, 43 % of U.S. adults – including 45 % of Republicans and 51 % of Democrats – say withdrawing American troops would be the right decision. The new Pew Research Center survey was conducted Jan. 9 - 14 – before a Jan. 16 bombing in Syria in which 14 people were killed, including several American service members. The violence in
In general, younger people tend to be more negative than older adults about some of the negative traits that affect their generation. For example, roughly half or more of Millennials who are older than 18 say the term `` greedy '' applies to them, and nearly a third ( 34 % ) say the same about younger people. On the other hand, only about a quarter of Gen Xers ( 24 % ) feel that way about their generation, and 35 % say they feel negatively about their own generation.
Anxiety and depression are the top concerns teens see among their peers. Across the eight issues asked about in the survey, anxiety and depression is the top concern for 13 % of teens, the highest of any issue. Depression is the second-most commonly cited concern among teens, cited by 35 % and by 47 %, respectively.
About eight-in-ten Americans ( 81 % ) believe the biblical Christmas story is based on an accurate account of events in the Bible, while a majority ( 75 % ) says Jesus was born to a virgin. Only 4 % say the story was `` written by men and women '' and does not include the birth of Jesus.
When it comes to a path to citizenship, a larger share of registered voters ( 45 % ) say both a pathway to citizenship and better border security are more important. The share who prioritize increased immigration enforcement is much higher among Republican voters ( 75 % ) than among Democratic voters ( 90 % ). About half of voters ( 48 % ) who support the Republican candidate ( want to see more restrictions on immigration ) say immigration is more important to them personally.
This stands in contrast with other regions of the country that have experienced the largest growth in Latino eligible voters since 2014. About seven-in-ten ( 70.5 % ) Hispanic eligible voters live in North Carolina-8, Florida's 6.4 % increase, and Kentucky-6 % growth. The only districts in which the Latino eligible voter population grew far faster than the statewide average are in states other than North Carolina.
Women are more likely than men to say online harassment is a major problem in the U.S. ( 75 % vs. 54 % ). And while both men and women are somewhat more likely to say people being harassed online has a major impact on the way things are going online, men are more evenly divided in their views : 54 % of men and 51 % of women say this is the major problem. By contrast, a majority of Democrats ( 58 % ) and Republicans ( 41 % ) say the same.
Caregivers are heavy technology users and are much more likely than other adults to take part in a wide range of health-related activities.
White adults are far more likely than Black adults to express strong support for the Black Lives Matter movement. About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) of white adults say they are very or somewhat strong in their support, compared with 29 % of Black adults and 33 % of Hispanic adults.
The age gaps between Japan and South Korea also are notable when examined by age. Nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) of adults in South Korea are ages 65 and older, compared with only a quarter ( 26 % ) in the Philippines and 10 % in India.
There is also widespread concern about the safety of genetically modified foods in general. Majorities in Russia, Poland, Italy, India and South Korea say GM foods are generally unsafe to eat. About seven-in-ten in the U.S., 70 %, Poland and Italy say such foods are safe, while only 6 % and 13 % of the public, respectively, say the same.
The new survey finds that nearly two-thirds of self-described libertarians ( 65 % ) support marijuana legalization, as do 33 % of the public. Libertarian views are nearly the same : 65 % support legalizing marijuana, while 33 % are opposed.
On this issue, however, Europe stands out as more supportive than the U.S. of censoring statements that are offensive to minorities. A median of 50 % across the eight EU countries surveyed see this as a good way to govern their country. In contrast, only about half in France ( 49 % ), Germany ( 50 % ) and Italy ( 46 % ) do so.
For instance, 44 % of cell owners who go online use their cell phone at least once a day, but less than half of the public ( 45 % ) does so. Unwanted sales and calls on cell phones are the second-most frequently cited reason for not going online : 44 % do so at least several times per day, and 31 % of texters report doing this at least some of the time.
However, Hispanic teens are split on this question : 48 % say it is necessary to believe in God to be moral, while a nearly identical share ( 48 % ) says it is not necessary. By contrast, four-in-ten Hispanic teens ( 40 % ) say religion is very important to morality, and 34 % say religion does not make a difference in this way.
This anger plays a large role in the high level of enthusiasm among Democratic voters. Fully 71 % of Democratic voters who describe themselves as `` angry '' at government say they are more enthusiastic about voting this year, compared with 45 % of those who are `` frustrated '' or `` basically content '' with government. Similarly, Democrats who register strong disapproval of the president are far more likely to be eager to vote than those with less strong views ( 58 % vs. 29 % enthusiastic ). And 56 % of Democrats who say their congressional vote is a vote against the president express high enthusiasm about 2006 compared with just 44 % who say Bush is
Democrats and Republicans have starkly different views. Across the political spectrum, a majority of Democrats ( 68 % ) would support same-sex wedding services if they had to choose, which comes closest to their view. About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 69 % ) said this, compared with 29 % of independents. Republicans and independents who lean to the GOP are divided : 50 % of Republicans and Republican leaners favor allowing gays and lesbians to use public restrooms, just as they would to all other people in the survey.
Yet the public does offer harsh criticism of some specific aspects of the government's response – particularly when it comes to its handling of criminal cases. A median of 61 % say that laws and regulations in the country are not good for dealing with the increased number of Rape cases, while 37 % say laws are excellent.
Law enforcement agencies'response to this problem varies widely by experience. Roughly half ( 55 % ) of those who have experienced severe harassment that includes severe behaviors, say law enforcement does not take incidents of online harassment seriously enough ( 19 % ). Smaller shares of those ( 44 % ) who have experience with severe harassment and do not feel that law enforcement takes issues seriously enough.
Familiar views about cutting the federal budget deficit are driving cuts across the ideological spectrum. Nearly eight-in-ten ( 82 % ) Republicans and Republican leaners say they want to cut federal spending, while just 39 % want to keep Medicare and Medicaid at their current levels. Liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans also want to see more cuts in defense spending ( 55 % favor vs. 35 % oppose ). And there is broad agreement among Democrats on Medicare, with 55 % in favor and 55 % opposed.
In the 2018 survey, about three-quarters of voters ( 77 % ) said there were sizable gender, race and education divides in voting. Among black voters, nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) voted for Democratic candidates – a share that has barely changed since the 2008 election. ( See this study for views of the 2018 U.S. electorate. )
An overwhelming majority of Americans ( 58 % ) say expanding the nation's energy supply is a top priority. The private survey by the Pew Research Center found that by more than two-to-one ( 64 % to 34 % ), more people prioritized expanding oil, coal and natural gas ( 55 % to 49 % ) than developing alternative sources ( 45 % to 39 % ).
By the same token, self-identified Hispanics – who make up just more than a third of all U.S. adults – say that when they grow up, their parents talked about their pride in their roots. But that share falls to 53 % among the second generation and to just 15 % of the third or higher generation Hispanics.
Seventy years after the end of the Chinese Civil War, support for closer ties with the U.S. is widespread across nearly all age groups in Taiwan. About nine-in-ten ( 91 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 and a similar share of those 30 to 49 ( 87 % ) say closer ties are welcomed. Only about a third ( 35 % ) support closer ties between the U.S. and China. Support for the Democratic People's Party ( DPP ) is more widespread among older adults, with 62 % saying that ties are more important. A majority of Taiwanese only ( 62 %
8 Most YouTube users in the U.S. say they at least occasionally encounter false or troubling content on the platform. Roughly two-thirds of U.C. adult YouTube users ( 64 % ) say at least sometimes they encounter videos that seem obviously false or untrue while using the site, according to the 2018 survey. A similar share ( 60 % ) reported at least some time seeing videos that show people engaging in dangerous or troubling behavior.
Women are more enthusiastic about the country's future than men. A majority of women ( 55 % ) say they have quite a lot of confidence in the future of the country. Only about one-in-five men ( 29 % ) are less optimistic.
About eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 82 % ) say they have a great deal of confidence in scientists'scientists to act in the best interest of the public. A smaller majority ( 68 % ) says the same about Republicans. A majority ( 55 % ) of Americans overall say there is at least a fair amount of confidence regarding scientists'policymaking and decision-making. The share of Democrats who view scientists positively falls among those who describe their political views as liberal ( 21 % ) and moderate or conservative ( 10 % ).
However, for the population it is meant to describe, only around a quarter ( 23 % ) of U.S. adults who self-identify as Hispanic or Latino have heard of the term Latinx, and just 3 % say they use it to describe themselves, according to a nationally representative, bilingual survey conducted in December 2019 by Pew Research Center.
occupational health care and service jobs increased by 6.5 % between 2014 and 2016, the highest annual increase of any occupational grouping. The major occupational groups that have seen the greatest growth are those who are the providers of health care, computer and information technology ( CDVID-19 ), as well as the ones who manage food preparation and repair. That stands in contrast to the 5.4 % growth seen in the previous five years.
About two-thirds of Americans ( 68 % ) say the U.S. government has gone too far in taking government too far. Just 26 % say the government has gotten too far, while 31 % say it has stayed about the same. Fox News viewers are more likely to have heard the phrase `` government is out of control '' than those who have heard `` a lot '' about the government ( 66 % vs. 26 % ). There is also a substantial partisan divide on this issue among Republicans. Nearly eight-in-ten Republicans ( 79 % ) who have seen or heard a lot about the Trump administration say the
Despite the challenges that have plagued the U.S. economy since the onset of the Great Recession, the Pew Research Center projections have persisted. The median number of projected expenditures ( defined as the total amount of expenditures divided by the years of time each ) has grown steadily over the past decade, rising from 6.8 % of the population in 2010 to 14.9 % in 2050. The downturn is shared widely among Americans regardless of ideological affiliation.
Seventy years after the end of the Chinese Civil War, a majority of adults in Taiwan ( 67 % ) believe the country should have closer political ties with just mainland China. Only about a quarter ( 28 % ) support closer ties with the U.S., while a plurality ( 44 % ) says the same about China. Adults ages 18 to 29 are far less likely to support closer political relations with mainland China than those 50 and older ( 17 % vs. 22 % ).
Federal policy defines `` Hispanic '' not as a race, but as an ethnicity. And it prescribes that Hispanics can in fact be of any race. But these census findings suggest that standard U.S. racial categories might either be confusing or not provide relevant options for Hispanics to describe their racial identity. Roughly two-thirds of Hispanic adults ( 65 % ) said being Hispanic was part of their racial background, and an additional 19 % said it was not.
A sizable majority of white evangelical Protestants ( 78 % ) say they sympathize more with the Palestinians, but just 42 % of black Protestants say the same. Among religiously unaffiliated Americans, large majorities ( 79 % ) and those with no religious affiliation ( 56 % ) feel more sympathetic toward the Palestinians than those who are religious `` nones. ''
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites. Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 68 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ). People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party. Currently, 61 % of those who do not identify with any religion lean Democratic – a 22-year high. Back to top
When it comes to who is the most important Hispanic-American leader in the current survey, roughly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of Latinos name Chavez, the current governor of the U.S., according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March and April.
Lebanon's political system is viewed negatively by many people. Only about a quarter ( 26 % ) of Lebanese say they agree that the government is run for the benefit of all people. A similar share ( 66 % ) say the same about the government's performance. At the same time, 72 % of Lebanese are dissatisfied with how democracy is working in their country.
More broadly, the Chinese people believe that free markets are good for the economy than that all other forms of life are better. Nearly three-quarters ( 74 % ) agree that people are better off in free markets, while only 28 % say that all people benefit from capitalism.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's support for Palestinian President Abbas is guarded. At the same time, the Israeli public disapproves of some of President Obama's economic policies, including his dealings with the Palestinians and his stance on the Iran nuclear agreement. A majority ( 61 % ) says they disapprove of the way Netanyahu is handling his job as president.
The public is evenly divided over whether the U.S. should impose additional economic sanctions on Russia for its annexation of Ukraine. Roughly half ( 53 % ) say they would support stronger diplomatic sanctions against Russia, while 36 % oppose such a measure. A smaller share ( 36 % ) says they would not support sending military supplies to Ukraine.
The public is now divided over the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria : 39 % favor the use of ground forces to target extremists in the war zone, while 39 % oppose the campaign. In February 2015, a majority of Americans ( 57 % ) approved of the United States'use of military force in the Iraq and Syrian conflict.
Smartphone ownership is especially widespread among adults under the age of 30. Fully 72 % of adults under 30 own a smartphone, and roughly half own a tablet computer and smartphone, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2016. By comparison, fewer than 1 in 6 Americans ages 30 to 49 ( 35 % ) own a desktop or laptop computer, and 27 % own some tablet computer. Education and income again play a role when it comes to smartphone ownership. For instance, 18 % of those with an annual household income of $ 75,000 or more say they own a laptop computer or tablet, compared with 27 %
Overall, 36 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say lowering taxes for corporations and large businesses would make the tax system less fair, while an identical share ( 36 % ) say it would make it more fair and 27 % don't make much difference. A smaller share of Republicans ( 44 % ) from households earning $ 75,000 or more a year say these cuts would make no difference to the fairness of the system.
Majorities in all Western European countries surveyed – except Spain – believe it is necessary for immigrants to adopt the destination country's customs and way of life. Nearly seven-in-ten in the Netherlands ( 69 % ) and Germany ( 71 % ) say it is at least somewhat necessary for immigrant populations to make the country a safe haven for newcomers, while only 25 % say the same in France and Germany. ( The survey was conducted before the coronavirus pandemic and resultant economic strains took hold in many countries. )
Americans see cellphone use as OK in key public spaces, but not in more private or intimate gatherings. For instance, about three-quarters of Americans think it is generally acceptable for people to use their cellphones while walking down the street ( 77 % ), on public transit ( 75 % ) or waiting in line ( 74 % ). But only 38 % think it Is generally OK to use cellphones at restaurants, and very few say cellphone use is OK at a family dinner ( 12 % ) ; during a meeting ( 5 % )
An estimated 940,000 Hispanics of Peruvian origin lived in the United States in 2017, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey. Peruvians in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Peru origin ; this includes immigrants from Peru and those who trace their family ancestry to Peru. Peru is the 15th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the U.S., accounting for 2 % of the 5.4 million Hispanic population in 2017. Since 2000, the Peruvian-origin population has increased 174 %, growing from 406
And while most Democrats and Democratic leaners say their family is OK with talking about politics, about three-quarters of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 76 % ) say the same. Democrats are about twice as likely as Republicans to say they try to avoid the subject ( 21 % vs. 25 % ).
China's reputation among the public had already fallen to an all-time low in Pew Research Center polling as of March, with roughly two-thirds viewing the country unfavorably. Now, a survey conducted April 29 to May 5 finds that, compared with the public's expectations for China's global reputation, people in the U.S. and those in other countries overwhelmingly say China has done a bad job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak. While the public is divided over how well China has dealt with the global pandemic and the level of concern about China, most Americans say the Chinese have done a good
Most expect Cuba to become more democratic in the coming years. A majority ( 60 % ) of Cuban registered voters say the country will become more Democratic in the next few years, while 32 % say it will become less democratic ; just 5 % say Cuba will stay about the same as it is now.
About one-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed news about the terrorist shootings at the Paris newspaper to death most closely last week ; 19 % say news about this was the news they followed most closely. News about the crash – which resulted in no fatalities and turned pilot Chesley Sullenberger into a national hero – accounted for 14 % of coverage last week, according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Jan. 27 - 30 among 1,007 adults. For its part, the media devoted more attention to news about a domestic terrorist story than any other story last week.
Many Americans say it is `` very important '' to have a moral, ethical president. But just 15 % of the public says this, while 71 % say it's `` somewhat important, '' and roughly two-thirds of Republicans ( 63 % ) don't see it as very important.
About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say that the president and Congress should reduce the budget deficit, while 20 % say spending cuts to reduce the deficit should be the president's priority. The public is more divided when it comes to domestic spending cuts : About equal shares say spending levels should be kept about the same as they are now ( 29 % ) or reduced by about two-to-one ( 53 % to 25 % ).
YouTube is an important part of the overall internet experience for many Americans. About 6-in-ten adult Web users use YouTube, roughly equal to the share who use Facebook ( 21 % ) and Twitter ( 24 % ). Much smaller shares of internet users use sites such as Facebook ( 9 % ), Pinterest ( 5 % ) or Google ( 6 % ) as well.
Looking only at those nearing the end of their childbearing years, about half ( 48 % ) say they have ever personally undergone a fertility treatment or know someone who has had a spouse or partner do so, according to a Pew Research Center survey. This share is especially high among those with postgraduate degrees.
Americans are concerned about the state of the news media and how it operates. About half of U.S. adults ( 52 % ) say made-up news and information is a very big problem for the country. That's nearly double the share who said this in a December 2018 Pew Research Center survey.
More than three-quarters of Hispanic Millennials ( 69 % ) speak English proficiently. The same is true of about four-in-ten Gen Xers ( ages 52 to 67 ) who speak only English at home or speak English very well.
The survey also asked how each of these types of people affect society. In the Stonewall Society Era, majorities said homosexuality is viewed as harmful to society ( 69 % ), as do people with long beards hair and long hair ( 72 % ). And substantial majorities said that work with young career women ( 83 % ) or that homosexuality is more helpful one or way or the other ( 76 % ) would harm society.
The public is mixed when it comes to the potential impact that more Americans owning guns would have on crime in the U.S. Comparable shares say that if more Americans owned guns, there would be more crime ( 37 % ) or there would been no impact on the amount of crime ( 33 % ). About one-in-three say there would not be crime.
Environmentally concerned Americans are bothered a lot by the feeling that others waste their personal materials. About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) adults who try to live in ways that help the environment say environmental concerns bother them a lot when they see people who do this. An additional 23 % say that they feel confused by seeing people who incorrectly put things away that are close to enough to walk.
One-in-five Americans say they know someone who has been hospitalized or died due to the coronavirus as a result of COVID-19, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted March 19 - 24. This is especially true of those who have personally experienced mental or emotional problems – particularly when it comes to those with the highest chance of recovery. Around one-quarter of those with at least one of those affected ( 23 % ) say they have personally seen someone who was hospitalized or lost a job as a medical professional due to COVID/19.
The U.S. is in the middle of the pack when it comes to how much religion is in people's lives. In three of the 44 countries surveyed, more say religion is very or somewhat important in their lives than say it is not too or not at all important. The share saying religion is at or near the top is in Indonesia ( 57 % ), Malaysia ( 83 % ) and Jordan ( 84 % ). In contrast, roughly six-in-ten or more in the other countries surveyed say religion does not place much importance on their lives.
When it comes to global leadership, Americans and Russians clearly prefer the U.S. as the world's leading power, rather than China. Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) say having China as the top global power would be better for the world, while just 13 % say this about the U.S. – though a 63 % majority of Russians still prefer China – is the top choice.
Atheists and agnostics are particularly likely to say Trump has been a terrible or great president. Seven-in-ten white evangelical Protestants ( 74 % ) say this, compared with 37 % of white Catholics and just 13 % of black Protestants. Similarly, nearly seven-in of white Protestants ( 69 % ) and white Catholics ( 68 % ) – who are not affiliated with any religion at all – say Trump's presidency is a bad or terrible one.
Black employment at newspapers was more concentrated in the first half of 2013 – the first year for which reliable data is available. Between 2938 and 2000, the total number of black employed at newspapers increased by 54 %, from 2938,000 to 1754,000 over the same time period.
While only a minority of Americans ( 40 % ) feel it is acceptable for the government to monitor ordinary American citizens, many think it is appropriate to monitor others in a variety of other situations. Americans generally support the use of surveillance to investigate criminal activity, as well as circumstances when a person's digital activity may raise suspicion of potential involvement with terrorism or violent acts.
In the new survey, the Pew Research Center asked internet users whether they agree or disagree that the internet being open to people from around the world is essential for people to be safe in online life, or whether that is not the case. Around three-quarters of internet users ( 77 % ) said yes to one or both of these questions, while roughly four-in-ten ( 31 % ) disagreed.
At the same time, the share of people who say their country should allow highly skilled people to move to another country or work in their country is substantial. A median of 64 % across 10 European countries surveyed say that immigration increases economic mobility and economic security, even if it means slower economic growth. Just 37 % of people in Spain and the UK say the same.
And a new Pew Research Center survey finds that roughly one-in-five Israeli Jews ( 21 % ) and Druze ( 22 % ) have at least a few close friends from other religions. Nearly two-thirds of Jews ( 67 % ) say the majority of their close friends are from a religion or denomination, while only 12 % of Druze say the same. In Israel, close friends in each of these groups are associated with or lean toward the evangelical Protestant tradition. About one-third of Christians ( 31 % ), Druze Christians ( 36 % ) or Christians ( 12 % ) report having a lot of close
More than half of teens ( 45 % ) say they constantly use the internet, which is nearly identical to the share who said this in a 2015 Pew Research Center survey. At the same time, the share of teens who say they go online almost constantly has fallen from 54 % in 2015 to 41 % today. The decline in online use is due to a larger increase in teens'tendency to use cellphones and less intense use of social media. Roughly four-in-ten teens ( 39 % ) report that they use social media at least once a day, compared with 24 % who say that they do not use the
When asked about a general conflict between religion and science, roughly half or more adults ( median of 49 % ) say this occurs at least sometimes. This is especially true in Japan and South Korea, where about two-thirds or more say this happens at least often.
A majority ( 54 % ) of Americans say the country has made the necessary changes to give blacks equal rights with whites, while just 13 % say it's not made the changes needed. Majorities of whites ( 81 % ) and blacks ( 60 % ) want the country to continue making the important changes that have made blacks about the same as whites.
The Center's 2019 survey asked Americans about doctors as a group, rather than the individual doctors who patients may have gone to see. But another Pew Research Center survey conducted in the spring of 2016 asked American adults about more direct experiences with their health care providers. Seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 70 % ) said they have seen a health care provider for an illness or of medical condition in the past year. That was the highest share of any group.
Across the four predominantly English-speaking countries surveyed, a median of 70 % of legislators and 55 % of citizens held this view. And in several other countries, substantial shares of people with similar views of Floyd's death said that black lives matter to them ( 55 % and 51 %, respectively ). But that was far less common among legislators in the countries surveyed than in the U.S., according to a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted in July and August.
The oil leak continues to dominate news coverage as well. About a third of all coverage ( 34 % ) was devoted to the oil leak, far more than any other story, according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center's Project for Excellence in Journalism.
Support for the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria is widespread among the public. Fully 68 % of Americans favor a larger military campaign to fight extremists in the country, while just 24 % are opposed. Nearly half of Republicans ( 54 % ) favor a smaller campaign to battle Islamic militants, while 10 % oppose it.
On balance, people in most Muslim countries have generally positive views of moral issues. More than seven-in-ten or more in Pakistan, Pakistan, Nigeria, Ghana, Malaysia and Uganda say they are satisfied with the way things are going in their country.