Public perceptions of the tone of economic news have become much less negative over the past month . In fact , the percentage saying they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy has dropped to its lowest point since the question was first asked in December 2008 . Currently , 24 % say they are hearing mostly bad news , down 15 points from 39 % in early December . The proportion saying they are hearing a mix of good and bad news has jumped from 55 % last month to 68 % in the new survey . However , as has been the case for the past two years , very few say they are hearing mostly good economic news ; just 7 % say this , which is little changed from 4 % in December .
About three-quarters of Trump supporters ( 76 % ) say they have recently had a conversation about the election with a fellow Trump supporter , while only about half as many ( 37 % ) have discussed the election with someone who favors Clinton . Clinton supporters are similarly one-sided in their political discussions : 72 % say recent conversations about the election have been with other Clinton supporters , while just 40 % say they have been with Trump backers .
The life goals of Latinos overlap with some of these ingredients of the American dream . The two goals rated most highly by Latinos were being a good parent ( 51 % ) and having the resources to provide for their family ( 49 % ) . Owning a home – often seen as a key part of the American dream – was cited by 33 % of Hispanics as an extremely important life goal for them . Other top goals for Hispanics included having a successful marriage ( 30 % ) and being successful in a high-paying career or profession ( 22 % ) .
Many Americans struggle to understand the nature and scope of data collected about them . When it comes to their own role in managing their personal information , most adults are not sure what information is being collected or how it is being used . While half of those surveyed said they felt confident they understood how their information would be used , 47 % said they were not , and many of these people felt confused , discouraged or impatient when trying to make decisions about sharing their personal information with companies .
Many people in emerging and developing nations believe they have made progress in recent years . Asian publics in particular say they are now better off when asked to rate their lives today and their lives five years ago . At least half in Bangladesh , China , Vietnam , Thailand , Malaysia and India express this sentiment . Many publics in Africa and Latin America also think they have made progress over the past five years , though considerable percentages rate their current situation as worse . Brazilians , in particular , think life is better today . Ghanaians , on the other hand , are the most likely across all 33 emerging and developing countries to say they are worse off . Eastern Europe and the Middle East see less progress and more lost ground . Nearly half in Ukraine say their life is worse today than it was five years ago . At least four-in-ten in Egypt , Tunisia and the Palestinian territories say the same .
Why then are Democrats and Republicans now reacting so differently ? The answer may well lie , at least in substantial part , in the growing gap between the personal financial and labor market experiences of average – and even somewhat above average – wage earners compared with those of people in the uppermost tiers of the job market . And personal experience matters . While regression analysis of survey data shows that partisanship is an important factor , self-perceived financial status remains at least as powerful a factor as determining how one views the national economy ( more powerful if actual income is also taken into account ) .
As the accompanying charts show , since the formal end of the recession , the stock market ( as measured by the benchmark Standard & Poor 's 500 index ) has recovered much more strongly than housing . As of Tuesday 's market close , the S & P 500 was up more than 74 % ( excluding dividends ) since the beginning of 2009 ; although home values , as measured by the S & P/Case-Shiller index , were up 9.3 % between February 2012 and February 2013 ( the most recent data available ) , the index stands almost exactly where it did four years ago . ( See this post for more discussion of the Case-Shiller index and how it 's calculated . ) Go back further — say , to the beginning of 2000 — and a different picture emerges . Stocks at the time were riding the crest of the dot-com wave , but when that wave crashed stock prices fell sharply and took years to recover . Housing , though , barely paused in its long upward march , peaking in 2006 - 07 ( depending on the individual market ) before plunging . Still , the Case-Shiller index stood 46.6 % higher in February than it did in January 2000 , while the S & P 500 was up just 4 % over that same period ( though subsequent gains to date have pushed the overall increase to 11.2 % ) .
The midterm elections that handed losses to many Democrats across the country have n't resulted in much change for President Obama 's approval rating – it has barely moved in over a year and remains at 43 % . While Obama 's recent job approval is n't high by historical standards , his second-term numbers overall have been more stable than those of his predecessors . Although many factors contribute to a president 's approval in the public 's eye , it often declines after an election when a president 's party loses .
Last month , the Pew Research Center released a survey showing that a question about gun policy we have been asking since 1993 had passed a key milestone : For the first time in more than two decades , a higher percentage ( 52 % ) said it was more important to protect the right of Americans to own guns than to control gun ownership ( 46 % ) . Here 's the full wording of the question : `` What do you think is more important – to protect the right of Americans to own guns or to control gun ownership ? '' This question presents respondents with simple , stark alternatives : When the issue of guns is raised , do you find yourself more on the side of protecting gun rights or controlling gun ownership ? There is no indication that people have any difficulty answering this question or are ambivalent about the topic . In fact , when asked a follow-up about the strength of their opinion , 81 % of those who said it is more important to control gun ownership felt strongly about that position ; 91 % of those who said it is more important to protect gun rights felt strongly .
Overall , nearly half of Americans ( 48 % ) have a favorable view of Barack Obama , while about as many ( 49 % ) say their opinion of the president is unfavorable . The first lady 's public image is more positive : 61 % have a favorable opinion of Michelle Obama , while just 31 % say their opinion is unfavorable .
One factor in men 's optimism is their rosy view of what lies ahead for their children . In 27 of 44 countries men are more likely than women to think that the next generation will have a better life . The men in West Africa are the most confident about this . The least confident about the next generation 's prospects are Guatemalan men ( 75 % think children will be worse off ) Japanese women ( 71 % ) and German women ( 68 % ) . Strikingly , more than half the men in Western Europe , Eastern and Southern Africa and the Conflict Area plus more than half the women in North America , Western Europe and Eastern and Southern Africa think the future will be worse for children . The greatest disparity in views about children 's future is in Canada , where 45 % of men but only 24 % of women think children will have it better .
The number of unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. fell to its lowest level in more than a decade , according to new Pew Research Center estimates based on 2016 government data . The decline is due almost entirely to a sharp decrease in the number of Mexicans entering the country without authorization .
Superdelegates ( not an official designation , by the way ; their formal name is `` unpledged party leaders and elected officials '' ) will account for just under 15 % of all delegate votes at July 's Democratic National Convention . We worked from a list made public by the national Democratic Party ( originally to Vox ) , and updated and corrected it to account for deaths , resignations and , in at least one case , criminal conviction . We came up with a total of 713 named superdelegates ( a handful of slots are still vacant ) , then used a mix of official biographies , news reports , social-media postings and other sources to determine each superdelegate 's gender , race/ethnicity and , in most cases , age . Not just anyone gets to be a superdelegate . Under party rules , all sitting Democratic governors ( 21 , including the mayor of Washington , D.C. ) , senators ( 47 ) and representatives ( 193 ) automatically get their convention tickets punched . So do 20 `` distinguished party leaders '' – current and former presidents and vice presidents , retired House and Senate Democratic leaders , and all past chairs of the Democratic National Committee , the party 's governing body .
More than nine-in-ten Americans ( 93 % ) could identify Arnold Schwarzenegger as the California governor or a former action-movie star – both responses were counted as correct in the scoring . An equally large proportion of the public identified Hillary Clinton as a U.S. senator , a former first lady , a Democratic leader , or a candidate for president . Clear majorities can also correctly identify Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice ( 65 % ) and Sen. Barack Obama ( 61 % ) . House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is recognized by about half of the public ( 49 % ) .
Political views , physical appearance , gender and race are among the top reasons people say they are harassed online . Some 14 % of Americans – representing 35 % of those who have encountered any type of harassment online – say they have been the target of online harassment because of their political views . Democrats and Republicans are equally likely to say this . Among other reasons people have been harassed online , around one-in-ten U.S. adults cite their physical appearance ( 9 % ) , while 8 % each say they were targeted because of their gender or their race or ethnicity . Smaller shares cited religion , sexual orientation , occupation or disability status as reasons . Social media is by far the most common venue for online harassment . When asked where their most recent incident with online harassment occurred , 58 % of those who have been harassed online cited social media , the most common response . By comparison , 23 % of online harassment targets say their most recent experience occurred in the comments sections of a website , while 15 % cited a text or messaging app .
In general , the drone strikes against terrorists abroad are supported by a majority of Americans but they draw widespread opposition in most other countries surveyed . In a Pew Research Center survey conducted Feb. 7 - 10 , 56 % of Americans said they approved of the U.S. conducting missile strikes from drones `` to target extremists in countries such as Pakistan , Yemen and Somalia . '' About a quarter ( 26 % ) of the public disapproved .
Gold medals may not be the only thing at stake for the next few weeks in Sochi , Russia . The Olympic Games , which air on NBC , could also affect the contest for morning news ratings , which ABC has dominated since the last Olympic Games in 2012 .
Twitter users are also more likely to use their cell phones to connect to the internet ; fully two in five ( 40 % ) Twitterers with cell phones use the device to connect to the internet , while one quarter ( 24 % ) of those who go online but do not use Twitter do the same . Along with communicating extensively via untethered mobile devices , Twitter users are more likely to consume news and information on these devices as well .13 For many Twitter users , learning about and sharing relevant and recent nuggets of information is a primary utility of the service . While Twitter users are just as likely as others to consume news on any given day , they are more likely to consume it on mobile devices and less likely to engage with news via more traditional outlets . Twitterers are less likely to read a printed copy of a newspaper , but more likely to read a newspaper online ( 76 % vs. 60 % of non-Twitter users ) , and more likely to read a news story on a cell phone ( 14 % vs. 6 % ) or on a smart phone ( 17 % vs. 7 % ) . A similar pattern holds for video news consumption ; on any given day , Twitter users are just as likely as others to watch news on a TV , and just as likely to watch video news on a computer , but more likely to watch a news video on a cell phone ( 6 % vs. 1 % ) or on a smart phone ( 8 % vs. 1 % ) .
Republicans who had positive views of the tea party movement in 2014 or 2015 were among Trump 's most enthusiastic backers during the 2016 campaign . And , unlike Republicans who had mixed or negative opinions of the tea party , they continued to have very positive feelings about Trump through his first year as president . In February 2018 , those who had been Republican tea party supporters gave Trump an average rating of 78 on a 0 - 100 `` feeling thermometer , '' while Trump 's rating averaged 59 degrees among those Republicans who had no opinion of the tea party and was a much chillier 53 degrees among those who disagreed with the tea party . ( Across all Pew Research Center surveys conducted in 2014 and 2015 , 34 % of Republicans and Republican leaners said they agreed with the tea party and just 11 % disagreed , while the largest share – 53 % – expressed no opinion . )
There is less agreement in public views about other aspects of campaign coverage . Majorities say they want more coverage of the candidates ' debates ( 57 % ) , their sources of campaign money ( 55 % ) , their personal backgrounds ( 55 % ) , and the candidates who are not frontrunners ( 55 % ) . However , a third or more says that they would like to see less coverage of each of these aspects of the presidential campaign . The public is decidedly unenthusiastic about one area of campaign coverage : just 42 % say they would like to see more coverage of which candidate is leading in the polls , while 45 % wants to see less coverage . That result , like others relating to campaign coverage , has changed very little since May .
For its part , the media devoted the most coverage to the budget drama that played out in Washington and the last-minute compromise that averted a shutdown last weekend . This story accounted for 29 % of coverage – roughly four times the amount of coverage devoted to the Japan disaster ( 7 % ) and far more coverage than for any other story , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
Views of the job situation nationally are strongly related to perceptions of the local job market , and those perceptions are again headed in a negative direction after recovering somewhat during 2004 . Currently , 60 % of those polled say that job opportunities where they live are difficult to find ; 30 % say there are plenty of jobs available .
Partisans rate their parties . Most Republicans and Republican leaners ( 57 % ) say their party is not doing a good job of representing their views on same-sex marriage , and the party draws criticism from those on both sides of the issue .
Marriage across racial and ethnic lines continues to be on the rise in the United States . The share of new marriages between spouses of a different race or ethnicity from each other increased to 15.1 % in 2010 , and the share of all current marriages that are either interracial or interethnic has reached an all-time high of 8.4 % .
Just as with the population overall , the number of adult unauthorized immigrants in the workforce – 7.8 million – was lower in 2016 than a decade earlier . Their share of the workforce ( 4.8 % ) also declined from 2007 . The decline in the unauthorized immigrant workforce stems mainly from the decline in the overall unauthorized immigrant population . The decline in numbers came even though the labor force participation rate of unauthorized immigrants rose slightly from 2007 to 2016 , as it did for both lawful immigrants and U.S.-born women , but not U.S.-born men .
A poll last week by the Pew Research Center found that 59 % of Democratic voters said there was a `` good chance '' they would vote for Clinton . That is higher than the 52 % of Democrats who said there was a good chance they would back Clinton at a comparable point in 2007 . The bigger change , by far , is the state of Clinton 's possible Democratic competition . In early 2007 , a first-term senator named Barack Obama was already running for president – and 32 % of Democrats saw a good chance of supporting him . By June of that year , Clinton 's advantage on the `` good chance '' measure had narrowed to 10 points over Obama and former Vice President Al Gore ( 44 % , versus 34 % for each ) .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Oct. 4 - 7 among 1,511 adults , including 1,201 registered voters ( 1,112 likely voters ) , finds that 67 % of Romney 's backers support him strongly , up from 56 % last month . For the first time in the campaign , Romney draws as much strong support as does Obama . More generally , the poll finds Romney 's supporters far more engaged in the campaign than they were in September . Fully 82 % say they have given a lot of thought to the election , up from 73 % in September . The new survey finds that Romney supporters hold a 15-point advantage over Obama backers on this key engagement measure . Supporters on both sides were about even in September .
Only 13 % of Americans , however , have a great deal of confidence that space companies will sufficiently address the debris problem , while 51 % have not too much or no confidence , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Yet , the same survey finds that , among the 7 % of the public that is highly attentive to space news – those who say they have heard `` a lot '' about NASA in the past year and `` a lot '' about private space companies – some 37 % have a great deal of confidence that private companies will minimize space debris .
Overall , 41 % of voters said whites in the country today are favored over minorities ; 19 % said that minorities are favored over whites , while 33 % said that no group is favored . Attitudes on this question were strongly correlated with vote choice . Among those who said whites are favored in the U.S. , 87 % voted for Democrats . By contrast , large majorities of those who said minorities are favored ( 85 % ) or that no group is favored ( 69 % ) voted for Republican candidates . Views of the seriousness of the problem of sexual harassment also were closely tied to midterm preferences : 72 % of those who said it is a very serious problem supported Democratic candidates . Among those who said it was a somewhat serious problem , Republican candidates held a slim edge ( 50 % vs. 48 % ) . And while relatively few voters said sexual harassment is not too serious a problem ( 11 % ) , this group voted overwhelmingly Republican ( 79 % vs. 20 % ) .
While Slovakia is majority Catholic ( 63 % ) , around seven-in-ten Czechs ( 72 % ) are religiously unaffiliated – the highest share of unaffiliated adults in 34 European countries surveyed by the Center . In addition , far more people in Slovakia than in the Czech Republic say they believe in God ( 69 % and 29 % , respectively ) . The Czech Republic 's largely secular religious landscape is a result of dramatic declines over time in the share of adults who identify as Catholic . In a survey conducted in 1991 by the Times Mirror Center for the People & Press , Pew Research Center 's predecessor organization , 44 % of Czech speakers in Czechoslovakia identified as Catholic . Around half that many ( 21 % ) identify as Catholic in the Czech Republic today . In addition to being predominantly Catholic , Slovaks also are consistently more religiously observant than Czechs . For instance , there is at least a 20-percentage-point difference between the two nations in the shares who say they pray daily ( 31 % of Slovaks vs. 9 % of Czechs ) and attend religious services at least monthly ( 31 % vs. 11 % ) . And Slovaks are more likely to say religion in very important in their lives ( 23 % vs. 7 % ) .
Globally , internet use is much more common in wealthier countries . The percentage of people who are online in each country is highly correlated with countries ' gross domestic product per capita ( PPP ) . Regionally , internet use is lowest in sub-Saharan Africa , where a median of 41 % across six countries use the internet . South Africa ( 59 % ) is the only country in the region where at least half the population is online .
Americans and Germans differ over which country is most important to their own nation 's foreign policy . In the U.S. , people are most likely to name the UK ( 36 % ) as the most or second-most important foreign policy partner for the U.S. Only about one-in-ten ( 13 % ) name Germany , ranking it fifth on Americans ' list .
CNN 's once dominant credibility ratings have slumped in recent years , mostly among Republicans and independents . By comparison , the Fox News Channel 's believability ratings have remained steady both overall and within partisan groups . Nonetheless , among those able to rate the networks , more continue to say they can believe all or most of what they hear on CNN than say that about Fox News Channel ( 32 % vs. 25 % ) .
Roughly seven-in-ten adults ( 71 % ) say it is very important for a man to be able to support a family financially to be a good husband or partner . By comparison , 32 % say it 's very important for a woman to do the same to be a good wife or partner , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
The American public is closely divided over the degree of health risk posed by additives present in the foods we regularly eat . Majorities see at least some risk from eating food produced with common agricultural and processing practices , including meat from animals given hormones or antibiotics , produce grown with pesticides and foods with artificial ingredients . And about half of the public says that foods with genetically modified ( GM ) ingredients are worse for one 's health than foods without , according to a new nationally representative survey from Pew Research Center . The Pew Research Center survey finds the U.S. public of two minds about food additives . Roughly half say the average person faces a serious health risk from food additives over their lifetime ( 51 % ) while the other half believes the average person is exposed to potentially threatening additives in such small amounts that there is no serious risk ( 48 % ) . It 's important to keep in mind that the survey asks respondents for their views about food additives as a whole . There are more than 10,000 additives used to enhance the shelf life , appearance , taste or nutritional value of foods , including over 3,000 that are `` generally recognized as safe '' – a term defined by the Food and Drug Administration , the main federal agency charged with regulating food safety .
Upper-income Americans were especially likely to have each of these financial holdings . About nine-in ten upper-income Americans had savings ( 89 % ) and retirement accounts ( 87 % ) , and 68 % had stocks or other personal investments . In fact , upper-income Americans were about five times as likely to own stocks as lower-income Americans ( 68 % vs. 14 % ) .
Turnout in the 2006 midterm election may well be higher than normal , given the level of interest expressed by voters . Today , 51 % of voters say they have given a lot of thought to this November 's election , up from 45 % at this point in 2002 and 42 % in early October of 1998 . Even in 1994 – a recent high in midterm election turnout – just 44 % of voters had thought a lot about the election in early October .
Black adults stand out for their trust in local news organizations . One-in-three say they have a lot of trust in the information they get from local news organizations , higher than the share of whites who say the same ( 27 % ) . When it comes to national news organizations , blacks ( 23 % ) are about as likely as whites ( 20 % ) and Hispanics ( 24 % ) to express a lot of trust .
Nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) of consistent conservatives and about half ( 49 % ) of consistent liberals say most of their close friends share their political views . Among those with mixed ideological values , just 25 % say the same . People on the right and left also are more likely to say it is important to them to live in a place where most people share their political views , though again , that desire is more widespread on the right ( 50 % ) than on the left ( 35 % ) .
About a quarter of U.S. adults ( 27 % ) now say they think of themselves as spiritual but not religious , up 8 percentage points in five years , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted between April 25 and June 4 of this year . This growth has been broad-based : It has occurred among men and women ; whites , blacks and Hispanics ; people of many different ages and education levels ; and among Republicans and Democrats . For instance , the share of whites who identify as spiritual but not religious has grown by 8 percentage points in the past five years .
Over the long haul , America 's middle-income households have seen their income grow . From 1970 to 2014 , these households ' median income increased from $ 54,682 to $ 73,392 ( in 2014 dollars ) , a gain of 34 % . Lower-income household incomes have grown , too , but not as much : 28 % over the same 44-year period . Upper-income household incomes have grown most , up 47 % over this period . However , the nation 's economic progress over the past several decades masks financial setbacks since 2000 . Because of the recession in 2001 and the Great Recession of 2007 - 09 , overall household incomes fell from 2000 to 2014 . The greatest loss was felt by lower-income households , whose median income fell 9 % over this period ; the median for middle-income households fell 4 % , and that for upper-income households fell 3 % .
Most Russians still believe their country does n't get the respect it deserves , but fewer feel this way now than in the past . Today , 56 % of the Russian public thinks Moscow should be held in higher esteem around the world . About a third believes Russia gets the proper amount of respect , which is up from just 16 % in 2012 , the last time the question was asked .
As online college courses have become increasingly prevalent , the general public and college presidents offer different assessments of their educational value . Just three-in-ten American adults ( 29 % ) say a course taken online provides an equal educational value to one taken in a classroom , according to a March 2011 survey . By contrast , fully half of college presidents ( 51 % ) say online courses provide the same value .
Negative views of technology companies ' impact on the country have nearly doubled during this period , from 17 % to 33 % , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Nearly one-in-five ( 18 % ) now volunteer their impact has been neither positive nor negative or that it is mixed , or they offer no opinion .
Seven-in-ten of those who live less than 25 miles from the coastline say climate change is affecting their local community a great deal or some . By comparison , 57 % of those who live 300 miles or more from the coastline say climate change is affecting their local community at least some .
There is a sharp partisan divide when it comes to Canadians ' opinions of the U.S . Followers of the incumbent Conservative Party of Canada ( CPC ) , led by current Prime Minister Stephen Harper , have the most positive views of the U.S. ( 84 % ) . Among those who support the Liberal Party , 71 % give the U.S. a thumbs-up . But among backers of the social-democratic New Democratic Party ( NDP ) , only 58 % have a favorable view of America . Despite these differences , majorities of all political stripes in Canada still have a favorable view of the U.S .
Among those who anticipate that Russia or other foreign governments will attempt to influence the election , about two-thirds ( 66 % ) say this is a major problem . These views are much more prevalent among Democrats ( 82 % ) than Republicans ( 39 % ) .
With the 113th Congress now in the history books , we conducted a final tally of our nation 's legislative productivity — in terms of both total laws passed and of substance . Our calculation finds that the 113th just barely avoided the dubious title of `` least productive Congress in modern history . '' But that 's only because of an exceptionally active lame duck session . In all , the expiring Congress enacted 296 laws , 13 more than the 2011 - 12 Congress . Of those , we categorized 212 as substantive by our deliberately generous criteria ( that is , anything besides building renamings , commemorative-coin issuances and other purely ceremonial laws ) ; that was four more than the previous Congress .
A majority of adults say they have little or no confidence in the wisdom of the American people when it comes to making political decisions ( 59 % ) . Fewer say they have a very great deal or good deal of confidence ( 39 % ) .
Japanese atonement for its activities in China before and during World War II is an ongoing source of friction in Sino-Japanese relations . The Japanese believe they have expressed regret for their behavior , while the Chinese disagree . The Chinese see Tokyo 's war-related penitence quite differently . Roughly three-quarters ( 77 % ) say Japan has not adequately expressed regret , and such Chinese sentiment is largely unchanged since 2006 . Only 10 % believe Tokyo has apologized enough .
Democrats lead on several issues ; GOP leads on economy . With the public 's views of the economy becoming more positive , the Republican Party holds a 45 % -36 % lead on dealing with the economy . Last October , the two parties were rated about even for handling the economy ( 38 % Republican Party , 41 % Democratic Party ) . The GOP once again has a significant lead on handling terrorism ( 43 % to 32 % ) ; neither party had an advantage on terrorism in October .
A large majority of Republicans ( 71 % ) said that government aid to the poor does more harm than good , but there are divisions within the party based on income , according to the February survey . Eight-in-ten Republicans with annual incomes of $ 75,000 or more say government aid to the poor does more harm than good , as do 71 % of those with incomes of $ 30,000- $ 74,999 . But lower-income Republicans are less likely to agree . Among those with incomes of less than $ 30,000 , 48 % say it does more good than harm while 45 % say it does more harm than good .
A slim majority of conservative and moderate Democrats say they are concerned more about too much focus on investigations ( 55 % ) , while 43 % say their greater concern is not enough focus . The balance of opinion is roughly the reverse among liberal Democrats : 52 % say they are more concerned congressional Democrats will not focus enough on investigating the Trump administration , while 46 % say they are more concerned they will focus too much on these investigations .
More than half of the public ( 55 % ) say this was the news they followed most closely last week . The Gulf coast spill now has been the most closely followed story for each of the past 12 weeks . News about the spill again received more coverage than any other major story , accounting for 20 % of the newshole . That is up from 15 % one week earlier , but still below peak levels reached in May and June , when it accounted for one-third or more of coverage , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
The restaurant/food service industry is the single biggest employer of near-minimum-wage workers . Our analysis also found that 3.75 million people making near-minimum wages ( about 18 % of the total ) worked in that industry . Among near-minimum workers aged 30 and younger , about 2.5 million ( or nearly a quarter of all near-minimum workers in that age bracket ) work in restaurants or other food-service industries . But because many of those workers presumably are tipped , their actual gross pay may be above $ 10.10 an hour . ( Federal law , as well as wage laws in many states , allows tipped employees to be paid less as long as `` tip credits '' bring their pay up to at least the applicable minimum . )
Half of Russians also agree with the statement `` it is a great misfortune that the Soviet Union no longer exists ; '' 36 % disagree . This is a slight decline from 2009 , when 58 % agreed and 38 % disagreed . Russians ages 50 and older tend to express more nostalgia for the Soviet era than do those under 50 .
The face of the Washington press corps has changed markedly in recent years , transformed by an increase in the number of journalists working for `` niche '' publications and digital startups , while the ranks of reporters working for general interest local newspapers have continued to decline . A new Pew Research Center report – updating findings from a 2009 study of the Washington press corps – tracks the changes and explores the implications for local communities . Credentialed reporters working for trade publications , specialty outlets and other niche news sources now outnumber daily newspaper reporters , according to the U.S. Senate Press Gallery . As recently as the late 1990s , daily newspaper staff outnumbered specialty journalists by more than two to one .
Mitt Romney trailed Barack Obama most of the year in personal favorability but closed the gap after the first presidential debate and maintains that parity in the current poll . Half of registered voters ( 50 % ) say they have a favorable opinion of him , compared with 52 % favorable for Barack Obama . Comparable numbers of voters say they have a very favorable opinion of each of the candidates ( 23 % for Obama , 19 % for Romney ) , as well as a very unfavorable opinion ( 26 % each ) .
More U.S. high school students are staying in school , according to newly released data from the Census Bureau , as the national dropout rate reached a record low last year . Just 7 % of the nation 's 18-to-24 year olds had dropped out of high school , continuing a steady decline in the nation 's dropout rate since 2000 , when 12 % of youth were dropouts . The decline in the national dropout rate has been driven , in part , by substantially fewer Hispanic and black youth dropping out of school ( the non-Hispanic white dropout rate has not fallen as sharply ) . Although Hispanics still have the highest dropout rate among all major racial and ethnic groups , it reached a record-low of 14 % in 2013 , compared with 32 % of Hispanic 18- to 24-year-olds who were dropouts in 2000 . The new data show significant progress over the past decade at other measures of educational attainment among Hispanic youth : Not only are fewer dropping out of high school , but more are finishing high school and attending college . The only exception is that Hispanics continue to substantially trail white youth in obtaining bachelor 's degrees . The decline in the size of the Hispanic dropout population has been particularly noteworthy because it 's happened at the same time that the Hispanic youth population is growing . The number of Hispanic 18- to 24-year-old dropouts peaked at 1.5 million in 2001 and fell to 889,000 by 2013 , even though the size of the Hispanic youth population has grown by more than 50 % since 2000 . The last time the Census Bureau counted fewer than 900,000 Hispanic dropouts was in 1987 .
As has been the case throughout 2012 , most Americans ( 55 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the U.S. economy . A third ( 33 % ) say they have been hearing mostly bad news about the economy , up slightly from October ( 28 % ) . Just 10 % are hearing mostly good news about the economy , though this , too , has risen since the summer . In August , just 3 % said they were hearing mostly good economic news .
Some Hispanics say they have changed how they outwardly show their identities over the past five years , a period that roughly starts with the launch of Trump 's presidential campaign . Before the outbreak , over a third ( 35 % ) of Hispanics said they more often outwardly express their Hispanic identity than five years ago by speaking Spanish in public ( 24 % ) , talking about their pride in being Hispanic ( 25 % ) or wearing clothing that shows their Hispanic heritage ( 10 % ) . Meanwhile , a similar share of Hispanics ( 33 % ) said they more often express their U.S. identity by speaking only English in public ( 21 % ) , talking about their pride in being American ( 17 % ) or wearing clothing that shows their U.S. pride ( 11 % ) . Public expressions of identity differed greatly by party affiliation . About four-in-ten ( 44 % ) Hispanic Republicans said they outwardly express their U.S. pride compared with five years ago . Roughly three-in-ten ( 29 % ) of Hispanic Democrats said the same .
The proportion of Americans who read e-books is growing , but few have completely replaced print books for electronic versions . The percentage of adults who read an e-book in the past year has risen to 28 % , up from 23 % at the end of 2012 . At the same time , about seven in ten Americans reported reading a book in print , up four percentage points after a slight dip in 2012 , and 14 % of adults listened to an audiobook . Overall , 76 % of adults read a book in some format over the previous 12 months . The typical American adult read or listened to 5 books in the past year , and the average for all adults was 12 books .1 Neither the mean nor median number of books read has changed significantly over the past few years .
After more than a decade of war in Iraq and Afghanistan , the public does not think the United States has achieved its goals in either country . About half of Americans ( 52 % ) say the U.S. has mostly failed to achieve its goals in Afghanistan while 38 % say it has mostly succeeded . Opinions about the U.S. war in Iraq are virtually the same : 52 % say the United States has mostly failed in reaching its goals there , while 37 % say it has mostly succeeded .
For example , close to nine-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 86 % ) believe these platforms are very or somewhat important for creating sustained social movements , compared with around seven-in-ten conservative or moderate Democrats ( 73 % ) and just over half of liberal or moderate Republicans ( 56 % ) and conservative Republicans ( 53 % ) . Partisans ' views are more closely aligned when they are asked about the importance of these platforms for getting elected officials to pay attention to issues or influencing policy decisions .
Many Americans are wary of the prospect of implanting a computer chip in their brains to improve their mental abilities or adding synthetic blood to their veins to make them stronger and faster , according to a major new Pew Research Center survey gauging the public 's views on technologies that could enhance human abilities . And this is particularly true of those who are highly religious . For instance , a majority of highly religious Americans ( based on an index of common religious measures ) say they would not want to use a potential gene-editing technology that would give their baby a much reduced risk of disease ( 64 % ) , while almost the same share of U.S. adults with `` low '' religious commitment would want to use such a technology ( 63 % ) . Similar patterns exist on questions about whether people would want to enhance themselves by implanting a computer chip in their brains or by having synthetic blood transfusions . Not only are highly religious Americans less open to healthy people using these potential technologies , but they are more likely to cite a moral opposition to them – and even to connect them directly to religious themes .
Google search activity for specific gun models tends to rise and fall in a similar pattern to the number of background checks conducted by the FBI . When we examined monthly , nationwide Google searches for the gun models on our list between February 2012 and February 2018 , as well as the adjusted number of gun background checks the FBI carried out each month during this period , we found a strong correlation between the two . This finding aligns with other research that has found that Google search activity tends to track real-world economic indicators closely . A 2017 paper published in the journal Science also found that the search term `` buy gun '' is strongly correlated with background checks . Google search interest in guns is correlated with the population-adjusted number of FBI background checks at the state level , too . In 2017 , states with more Google search activity for the specific gun models we tested also had a higher per-capita number of FBI background checks . ( This finding reflects Google searches and background checks conducted over the course of the full year . )
In addition , vaping increased among college students from 2017 to 2018 , the most recent year for which MTF has released data for this group . In fact , the uptick in vaping among college students for nicotine ( from 6 % in 2017 to 16 % in 2018 ) and marijuana ( from 5 % to 11 % ) were among the greatest one-year increases for any substance asked about since the survey was first administered in 1975 . ( The long-running annual survey is first distributed to a nationally representative sample of students in eighth , 10th and 12th grades , and a randomly selected sample from each senior class continues to receive surveys biannually after finishing high school . ) Nicotine was the most commonly cited substance being used in e-cigarettes for most groups of students in 2018 . Vaping just flavoring , by comparison , was more common for 12th graders ( 14 % ) , 10th graders ( 13 % ) and eighth graders ( 8 % ) than for college students ( 5 % ) in the previous month .
Public perceptions of medical scientists and their research are broadly positive . Some 55 % of Americans perceive strong consensus among medical scientists that the measles , mumps and rubella vaccine is safe for healthy children . Nearly half of Americans ( 47 % ) say that medical scientists understand very well the risks and benefits of the MMR vaccine , 43 % say medical scientists understand this fairly well and just one-in-ten ( 10 % ) say medical scientists do not understand this at all or not too well . While there is considerable variation in Americans ' views about medical scientists ' understanding of childhood vaccines , most Americans think medical scientists should have a role in policy decisions related to childhood vaccines . Fully 73 % of U.S. adults think that medical scientists should have a major role , 19 % think they should have a minor role in such policy-making decisions , and 7 % think medical scientists should have no role in vaccine policymaking . Far fewer Americans say that other groups should have a major role in policy decisions on these issues , including the general public ( 47 % ) , pharmaceutical industry leaders ( 27 % ) , health insurance company leaders ( 26 % ) or elected officials ( 25 % ) .
The public 's policy agenda is again dominated by the economy and jobs with other major issues viewed as less important . Fully 87 % say that strengthening the economy should be a top priority for the president and Congress and 84 % rate improving the job situation as a top priority , by far the highest percentages among 22 issues tested . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 5 - 9 among 1,503 adults , finds that concern about the budget deficit has increased in recent years . Currently , 64 % view reducing the budget deficit as a top priority , up slightly from 60 % a year ago , and 53 % in 2009 . Yet reducing the deficit continues to lag far behind the economy and jobs among the public 's priorities . This also is true for policy goals related to health care , whether reducing health care costs ( 61 % top priority ) or revising last year 's health care law ( 56 % ) . The public continues to be divided over what it wants to see done with the health care law – 37 % favor its repeal , while nearly as many ( 35 % ) want the law expanded , and 20 % would leave it as it is .
Six-in-ten women under the age of 35 who have used online dating sites or apps say someone continued to contact them after they said they were not interested , compared with 27 % of men in this age range . Younger female users are also about twice as likely as their male counterparts to say someone on a dating site or app has called them an offensive name ( 44 % vs. 23 % ) or threatened to physically harm them ( 19 % vs. 9 % ) . Other encounters that young women describe are more overtly sexual : 57 % of female online dating users ages 18 to 34 say someone has sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did not ask for . This compares with 28 % among male users in the same age range . ( In this analysis , online dating users are the 30 % of U.S. adults who answered yes to the following question : `` Have you ever used an online dating site or dating app ? '' )
Americans ' views about the balance between online safe spaces and free speech tend to vary by gender . Men are more likely than women to say that it is more important for people to be able to speak their minds freely online ( 56 % vs. 36 % ) , while women are more inclined than men to say it is more important for people to feel welcome and safe in online spaces ( 63 % vs. 43 % ) .
While social networking has spread globally , it is particularly widespread in the country where it began . Among the 22 publics surveyed , Americans most often say they use websites like Facebook and MySpace : 46 % use such sites , 36 % use the internet , but do not access these sites , and 18 % say they never go online . The survey finds three countries close behind the United States in social network usage : in Poland ( 43 % ) , Britain ( 43 % ) and South Korea ( 40 % ) , at least four-in-ten adults say they use such sites . And at least a third engage in social networking in France ( 36 % ) , Spain ( 34 % ) , Russia ( 33 % ) and Brazil ( 33 % ) . Germans and the Japanese stand out among highly connected publics for their comparatively low levels of participation in social networking . While 31 % of Germans use these types of sites , 49 % go online at least occasionally but choose not to use them . In Japan , 24 % are engaged in social networking , while 44 % have internet access but are not engaged .
Americans divided their attention among several major stories last week as President Obama reached out to the Muslim world in a major speech , a jetliner crashed into the Atlantic Ocean and General Motors filed for bankruptcy protection . At the same time , they continued to keep a close watch on news about the troubles facing the U.S. economy . Meanwhile , the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted June 5 - 8 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , shows that interest in news about the U.S. economy remained strong across most groups . About two-in ten ( 22 % ) say they followed economic news more closely than other major stories . A comparable share ( 21 % ) say they followed news about the deadly plane crash most closely , while 17 % say the same about Obama 's speech to the Muslim world on June 4 . A slightly smaller share ( 13 % ) say they followed news about the GM bankruptcy filing more closely than other major stories , while 7 % say they followed news about the NBA final series most closely , and 5 % say they followed news about the killing of a Kansas doctor who performed abortions that closely .
Looking at the various combinations of responses to those questions , this survey finds that 48 % of Americans would be relatively comfortable or likely to engage with all three of those steps , and 51 % would be relatively resistant to at least one core aspect of the process . In making this calculation , we used a somewhat generous definition of engagement . ( The percentages who actually would cooperate could be higher or lower . ) The 48 % referred to in most of this report as `` comfortable or likely to engage '' with all steps are those who say they would do all of the following in the coronavirus contact tracing process : In addition , younger adults , Hispanic adults , those with lower incomes and those with less formal education are less likely to be fully comfortable or likely to engage with the process than their counterparts . About four-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 ( 41 % ) say they would be comfortable or likely to engage with all three steps , compared with 56 % of those ages 65 and older . And while White and Black adults are similarly likely to fall into this group given their responses – about half of each group expresses full comfort or likelihood engaging – Hispanic adults are less likely to say this ( four-in-ten Hispanic adults say so ) .
At the same time , there are some positive interactions , too . About a quarter of Israeli Muslims ( 26 % ) say a Jewish person has expressed sympathy toward them because of their religious identity within the past year .
In nearly half of two-parent households in the U.S. today , children are raised by parents who both work full time . Yet most Americans say that children with two parents are better off when one of them stays home to tend to the family , according to a Pew Research Center survey . A Pew Research Center analysis conducted last year had found that both parents work full time in 46 % of two-parent households . By contrast , in 1970 , only 31 % of these households had both parents employed full time . The most common arrangement at that time , among two-parent households , was a full-time working father and a mother who was not employed .
In other news last week , the public continued to pay close attention to reports about the U.S. economy . Fully 45 % followed news about the economy very closely and 25 % listed this as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . The national media devoted 5 % of its overall coverage to the economy . The cyclone that struck Burma resulting in devastating loss of life and property was the second most heavily covered news story of the week . The media devoted 15 % of its coverage to this story .
Older generations of Americans are more likely to see their country as exceptional . This is the case when it comes to whether people think the United States stands above all other countries in the world ; that it is one of the greatest countries , along with others ; or that other countries are better than the U.S. Around four-in-ten Boomers or Silent Generation members say the U.S. stands above all other countries in the world , while only around a quarter or fewer of Gen Xers ( 26 % ) and Millennials ( 22 % ) say the same .
But while few citizens on the European continent are eager to see their own country depart the EU , many want the chance to have their voice heard through their own referendum on EU membership . Moreover , frustrations with Brussels remain when it comes to economic management and dealing with the refugee issue . Asked whether they would like their national government to make decisions about the movement of people into their country and trade with other nations , roughly half or more across the countries surveyed answer , `` Yes . '' A median of just 18 % in the nine continental EU nations surveyed want their own country to leave the EU . Greece and Italy are home to the largest support for exit , but even in these countries more than half want to remain a part of the European project .
Television still dominates . Newspapers are falling on hard times . Just this past December , we documented that the internet had surpassed newspapers as the second most common source for the public . For young people , newspapers and the internet have been dueling for most of this decade , and in 2008 the internet finally swamped newspapers — and matched television as a news source .
Domestically , despite international concerns leveled by various governments regarding Duterte 's controversial clashes with drug cartels and potential human rights violations , the Filipino leader and his policies are widely popular . Fully 86 % have a favorable view of Duterte himself , 78 % support his handling of the illegal-drugs issue and 62 % say that the Philippine government is making progress in its anti-drug campaign .1 Meanwhile , 78 % believe the current economic situation is good and 57 % are satisfied with the direction of the country , a 21-percentage-point increase from 2014 , the last time this question was asked in the Philippines . Since being elected in 2016 , Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte has waged a war on drugs that has garnered international condemnation , including accusations of crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court . Yet Pew Research Center 's 2017 survey finds that Duterte is well-liked domestically and his policies , including his approach to the war on drugs , are generally popular among Filipinos . A 57 % majority say they are satisfied with the way things are going in their country , up from 36 % three years ago . Moreover , 78 % believe that the economic situation in the Philippines is good , while only 20 % say the economy is in bad shape .
That year – the first decennial enumeration in which the nation 's Hispanic population was comprehensively counted – non-Hispanic whites were majorities in all but 171 out of 3,141 counties ( 5.4 % ) , according to our analysis . The 1990 census was the first to break out non-Hispanic whites as a separate category ; that year , they made up the majority in all but 186 counties , or 5.9 % of the total . ( The Census Bureau considers Hispanic to be an ethnicity rather than a race ; accordingly , Hispanics can be of any race . )
In more than half ( 65 ) of the world 's 125 democracies , the head of state – nearly always called a president – is directly elected by voters . Thirty other democracies are classified as constitutional monarchies , and in the remaining 30 , including the U.S. , the head of state is indirectly elected . ( We confined our analysis to the 125 nations designated as `` electoral democracies '' by Freedom House , a research institute that studies issues of democracy , political freedom and human rights . )
Historically , women have been more avid users of social media than men – a finding consistent across several Pew Research Center surveys . In fact , in November 2010 , the gender gap was as large as 15 percentage points . More recent data , however , show that these differences are no longer statistically significant . A new Pew Research Center analysis finds that a similar share of men and women say they used social networking sites this year , consistent with what we found in 2014 . Some 73 % of online men use social media , which is on par with the 80 % of online women who say they do so .
Trump 's overall job ratings have not changed in the wake of the impeachment process , just as they have remained relatively stable over the course of his presidency . In the current survey , 40 % approve of the way Trump is handling his job as president , while 58 % say they disapprove . Views are about the same as they were in September 2019 ( 40 % approve , 59 % disapprove ) , prior to the House of Representatives launching a formal impeachment inquiry and voting to impeach the president .
While 26 % of Americans say they followed news about the Zimmerman trial very closely about as many ( 24 % ) say they tracked news about a plane crash in San Francisco very closely . Among other stories , 18 % followed news about the debate over immigration policy very closely , while comparable percentages paid very close attention to efforts by Edward Snowden to gain asylum ( 16 % ) and the situation in Egypt ( 15 % ) . The `` royal baby '' attracted very little public interest : Just 5 % followed news about about the upcoming birth of Prince William and Kate Middleton 's first baby , one of the lowest levels of interest for any news story this year . In recent years , news about the royals has been very limited , with one notable exception – the death of Princess Diana in 1997 .
In survey after survey , Israelis give the U.S. some of its highest favorability ratings , and that 's true again this year , with 81 % saying they have a positive view of the U.S . Assessments of American presidents , however , have fluctuated . In 2003 , President George W. Bush received very high ratings , but those declined a bit over the course of his presidency . Obama 's confidence ratings varied from 49 % to 71 % in the Center 's polling in Israel during his administration . Between 2014 and 2015 , his ratings dipped substantially , reflecting tensions between Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over the Iran nuclear deal . Israel is one of only two countries ( Russia being the other ) in which Trump 's ratings are higher than Obama 's during the final two years of his administration .
By contrast , public support for the news media 's role as a political watchdog has endured and even increased a bit . Six-in-ten Americans say that by criticizing political leaders , news organizations keep political leaders from doing things that should not be done ; just 28 % feel such criticism keeps political leaders from doing their jobs . Two years ago , 54 % endorsed the press 's role as a political watchdog .
The shares of adults living in middle-income households fell in several countries in Western Europe . In seven of 11 Western European countries examined , the share of adults in middle-income households fell between 1991 and 2010 . The share of the adult population that is middle income decreased in Finland , Germany , Italy , Luxembourg , Norway and Spain ( as it did in the U.S. ) , but increased in France , Ireland , the Netherlands , and the United Kingdom . The largest shares of the adult population in middle-income households in 2010 were found in Denmark ( 80 % ) , Norway ( 80 % ) , and the Netherlands ( 79 % ) , while the smallest shares were found in Italy ( 67 % ) , the UK ( 67 % ) and Spain ( 64 % ) . Each of the Western European countries studied had a larger share of adults in middle-income households than the U.S. ( 59 % ) .
Users frequently contribute to crowdfunding projects as a way to help individuals in need . Fully 68 % of crowdfunding donors have contributed to a project to help someone facing some sort of hardship or financial challenge , making it the most common type of project of the five evaluated in this survey . In addition to these types of projects : Men and women differ in a number of ways when it comes to their use of crowdfunding platforms . Male donors are roughly twice as likely as female donors to have contributed to six or more projects , and are also nearly twice as likely to have contributed more than $ 100 to an individual project . And while women are more likely to contribute to a project to help someone in need , men are more likely to help fund new products or inventions , as well as projects for musicians or other creative artists . Younger men are especially interested in funding new products and inventions : 48 % of men ages 18 - 49 who have made a crowdfunding donation have contributed to this type of project .
Public perceptions of medical scientists and their research are broadly positive . Some 55 % of Americans perceive strong consensus among medical scientists that the measles , mumps and rubella vaccine is safe for healthy children . Nearly half of Americans ( 47 % ) say that medical scientists understand very well the risks and benefits of the MMR vaccine , 43 % say medical scientists understand this fairly well and just one-in-ten ( 10 % ) say medical scientists do not understand this at all or not too well . Some 52 % say that scientists ' research on childhood vaccines is influenced by the best available evidence most of the time , and 55 % say such research is influenced by scientists ' concern for the best interests of children 's health most of the time . Smaller shares say that researchers ' desire to help their industries or to advance their own careers influences research on childhood vaccines most of the time .
Putting these demographic measures together , 38 % of the youngest newsroom employees are both non-Hispanic white and male . This is still a higher share than among workers overall ( 30 % ) , but this 8-percentage-point gap is smaller than among older age groups . Newsroom employees age 50 and older are 17 percentage points more likely to be white men than all workers in the same age group , while those ages 30 to 49 are 15 points more likely .
For first two years of the conflict , Americans largely believed that the war effort was going at least fairly well and that the U.S. should not with draw its troops until the situation in Iraq was stable . By October 2005 , however , a 53 % -majority of the public had come to the view that the U.S. military effort in Iraq was not succeeding . As judgments about the war worsened in the following months and years , calls for withdrawals also trended upward . By July of this year , a Pew poll found nearly six-in-ten Americans saying that the U.S. military effort in Iraq was going not too well or not at all well . Correspondingly , the poll found a 54 % -39 % margin in favor of bringing U.S. forces home . The obvious question is : given these trend lines , can enough of a case for progress be made by the Bush administration to revive public patience with the war effort literally overnight ?
However , far fewer ( 63 % ) feel it is important to be able to `` go around in public without always being identified . '' Only 34 % believe being able to go unnoticed in public is `` very important '' and 29 % say it is `` somewhat important '' to them . In both cases , all adults , regardless of age or gender , express comparable views .
With a critical Republican primary in Florida , the 2012 presidential campaign was the public 's top story last week , closely followed by news about the economy . About a quarter ( 23 % ) say they followed news about the candidates for president most closely . Another 18 % say the economy was their top story . Nearly as many ( 15 % ) say they followed news about the Super Bowl more closely than any other news , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Feb. 2 - 5 among 1,006 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The presidential campaign was by far the most covered story , accounting for 36 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . News about the economy accounted for 10 % of coverage , while the Super Bowl accounted for 2 % .
A majority of Mexicans remain unhappy with conditions in their country . Fully two-thirds are dissatisfied with the way things are going in Mexico today . Only 30 % are satisfied with the country 's direction . This is largely unchanged from last year ( 29 % satisfied , 69 % dissatisfied ) and continues a trend of general malaise going back to when the question was first asked in 2002 .
More blacks than whites see at least strong conflicts between their two groups ( 76 % vs. 61 % ) , including close to twice as many who say they are very strong ( 38 % vs. 21 % ) . Nearly seven-in-ten Hispanics ( 69 % ) also see strong conflicts , including 42 % who say they are very strong .
Muslims around the world are set to mark Ramadan , a holy month when many fast from sunrise to sunset in order to focus on their spiritual life and get closer to God . In the United States , the vast majority of Muslims celebrate Ramadan , with eight-in-ten saying they fast during the holiday . Fasting for Ramadan is common across all the demographic groups that make up America 's 2.15 million Muslim adults . For instance , similar shares of Muslim men and women ( 77 % vs. 82 % ) say they fast , and there is little difference between Muslims who were born in the U.S. and immigrants ( 79 % vs. 80 % ) .
Voters find the debates useful , but not determinative . Post-election surveys conducted by Pew Research Center since 1988 have found that , in most cases , three-fifths or more of voters say the debates were very or somewhat helpful in deciding which candidate to vote for . The high point was 1992 , when 70 % of voters said the three three-way debates that year between Bill Clinton , George H.W . Bush and Ross Perot were at least somewhat helpful . However , that does n't necessarily mean that large numbers of voters are waiting for the debates to make up their minds . In 2016 , for example , only 10 % of voters said they had definitively made up their minds `` during or just after '' the presidential debates . By comparison , 11 % said they 'd made up their minds in the days or weeks on or just before Election Day , 22 % during or just after the party conventions , and 42 % before the conventions .
Many Japanese see the world as a threatening place . Their principal concern is the possibility of cyberattacks from other countries : 76 % see this as a major threat , a concern shared by all age groups and greater than their worry about U.S. or Chinese power and influence . The Japanese , along with South Koreans , are more worried about cyberattacks than are the remaining 36 nations polled in the 2017 Pew Research Center survey . ( For views on global threats , see `` Globally , People Point to ISIS and Climate Change as Leading Security Threats . '' ) Two-thirds of Japanese ( 67 % ) see global climate change as a major danger . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) voice the view that the Islamic militant group known as ISIS is a major threat to Japan . But only 38 % say a large number of refugees leaving countries such as Iraq and Syria pose a major peril . In 2016 Japan took in only 28 refugees from all countries .
Overall , 41 % of adults say recent protests related to racial inequality have received too much attention from news organizations , while 36 % say they have received the right amount and 23 % say they have received too little . By comparison , larger shares of Americans say news organizations have paid the right amount of attention to two other major stories this year : the coronavirus outbreak ( 46 % ) and the presidential election ( 58 % ) .
One theory is that the decline in women 's attendance at services – and subsequent narrowing of the attendance gender gap – is connected to changes in women 's labor force participation . In the mid-1970s , three-in-ten U.S. women ages 25 to 64 were working full time in the labor force . Today , just over half of women in that age group work full time , compared with around 70 % of men . Scholars have found that in the U.S. and other predominantly Christian countries , women working in the labor force attend religious services less often than women outside the labor force and show a smaller gender gap with men . However , it should be noted that the fastest increase in women 's full-time employment during this period occurred in the late 1970s and early 1980s , during which time the gender gap on religious service attendance actually widened somewhat . In the following years ( mid 1980s through the late 1990s ) , the share of women working full time continued to increase and women 's worship attendance declined – but it did so for women inside and outside the labor force , and across occupational categories including managers , professionals and retail and service workers .
Enshrined in the Bill of Rights , free expression is a bedrock American principle , and Americans tend to express stronger support for free expression than many others around the world . A 38-nation Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2015 found that Americans were among the most supportive of free speech , freedom of the press and the right to use the internet without government censorship .
Obama 's overall job approval rating stands at 51 % , while 44 % disapprove . His current job rating places him just below Bill Clinton 's ( 57 % approved ) in March of his final year in office , and is nearly identical to Ronald Reagan 's at a similar point in his presidency ( 50 % ) . Clinton finished his presidency with an approval rating of 61 % , while Reagan rallied in his final year to finish at 63 % .
Joe Biden 's favorability ratings are now seven points lower than they were in October 2013 , with more Americans now saying they have an unfavorable opinion of the vice president ( 48 % ) than saying they have a favorable opinion of him ( 39 % ) ; in October 2013 , 46 % viewed him positively , while 41 % viewed him negatively . Today , 58 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners view Biden favorably , down 15 points from October 2013 , when nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) did so . Just 17 % of Republicans and Republican leaners have a favorable opinion of Biden , a figure that is little changed over the last several years .
This year , one-in-four ( 25 % ) Hispanics lack health insurance , the highest rate of any racial or ethnic group , according to the Current Population Survey 's March 2014 Annual Social and Economic Supplement . About 14 % of the general U.S. population is uninsured .
The proportion saying they very closely followed developments involving the death of pop superstar Michael Jackson stands at 17 % ; down from the 30 % that said they were following the story very closely immediately after Jackson 's sudden death on June 25 . Still , developments accounted for 4 % of the newshole last week – making PEJ 's top five stories – as authorities continued to investigate the role Jackson 's doctors may have played in his death ; 15 % say this was the story they followed most closely . Close to two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they very closely followed reports about the popularity of the government 's `` Cash-for-Clunkers '' car trade-in program , which appeared to run through most of its original $ 1 billion allocation last week ; 5 % say they followed this story more closely than any other . The story made up 2 % of the newshole . Meanwhile , 18 % say they followed reports about the Iranian government 's crackdown on opposition protesters very closely , though just 3 % say they followed this story more closely than any other . In mid-June , about three-in-ten said they were following the Iranian crackdown on election protestors very closely .
In terms of the public 's views about the general legalization of marijuana , 41 % think the use of marijuana should be made legal while 52 % do n't think it should be legal . These findings are similar to a Gallup Survey conducted in October 2009 that found 44 % saying the use of marijuana should be made legal and 54 % saying it should not be legal . Support for legalizing marijuana is the highest it has been in 40 years of polling on this issue . In 1969 , only 12 % said the use of marijuana should be made legal . Support grew to a peak of 30 % in 1978 , and then declined over the course of the 1980s to a low of 16 % by 1987 . Since that time , the proportion of Americans who think marijuana should be made legal has been steadily increasing , to 31 % in 2000 and 41 % today .
Germany and the U.S. also have similar attitudes toward China . Roughly four-in-ten in each country have a favorable view of the Asian economic giant . Over the past decade and a half , Americans ' opinions of China have generally been more favorable than Germans ' views , but a rise in German sentiment over the past few years and a decline in American opinions have pulled attitudes closer together .
It 's become less common for dads to be their family 's sole breadwinner . As of 2016 , about a quarter of couples ( 27 % ) who live with children younger than 18 were in families where only the father works . This marked a dramatic change from 1970 , when almost half of these couples ( 47 % ) were in families where only the dad worked . The share of couples living in dual-earner families has risen significantly and now comprises the majority of two-parent families with children .
European attitudes toward Trump are strikingly negative , especially when compared with the ratings his predecessor received while in office . Looking at four European nations Pew Research Center has surveyed consistently since 2003 reveals a clear pattern regarding perceptions of American presidents . George W. Bush , whose foreign policies were broadly unpopular in Europe , got low ratings during his presidency , while the opposite was true for Barack Obama , who enjoyed strong approval in these four nations during his time in office . Following the 2016 election , confidence in the president plunged , with Trump 's ratings resembling what Bush received near the end of his second term ( although Trump 's numbers are up slightly in the United Kingdom this year ) .
Around four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 43 % ) get news from Facebook , according to a survey conducted in July and August 2018 . The share of U.S. adults who get news through Facebook is much higher than the shares who get news through YouTube ( 21 % ) , Twitter ( 12 % ) , Instagram ( 8 % ) , LinkedIn ( 6 % ) and other platforms . Among U.S. adults who get news from Facebook , women are more likely than men to do this ( 61 % vs. 39 % ) , as are whites when compared with nonwhites ( 62 % vs. 37 % ) .
Large racial and gender wage gaps in the U.S. remain , even as they have narrowed in some cases over the years . Among full- and part-time workers in the U.S. , blacks in 2015 earned just 75 % as much as whites in median hourly earnings and women earned 83 % as much as men . Looking at gender , race and ethnicity combined , all groups , with the exception of Asian men , lag behind white men in terms of median hourly earnings , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data . White men are often used in comparisons such as this because they are the largest demographic group in the workforce – 33 % in 2015 .
By contrast , the response to Sarah Palin 's comments about the shootings and their aftermath proved more mixed : 44 % of those who heard at least a little about Palin 's comments say their reaction was very ( 14 % ) or mostly ( 30 % ) positive , while 41 % say their reaction was very ( 20 % ) or mostly ( 21 % ) negative . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say they had heard at least a little about Palin 's comments , which were released on Jan. 12 . Among those who had heard about the speech by the former Alaska governor , the partisan divide in reaction is wide . Seven-in-ten Republicans ( 71 % ) say their reaction was very ( 26 % ) or mostly positive ( 45 % ) , compared with just 25 % of Democrats ( 8 % very positive , 17 % mostly positive ) . Independents largely mirror the public as a whole ; 42 % say their reaction was very ( 10 % ) or mostly positive ( 32 % ) , while 39 % say it was very ( 17 % ) or mostly negative ( 22 % ) .
The surveys were conducted June 8 - 18 among 2,504 adults and June 27-July 9 among 2,505 adults , with a follow-up survey conducted Aug. 15 - 21 among 1,893 respondents . This report was made possible by The Pew Charitable Trusts , which received support for the surveys from The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation . But the bottom line is this : Across 10 measures that Pew Research Center has tracked on the same surveys since 1994 , the average partisan gap has increased from 15 percentage points to 36 points . Two decades ago , the average partisan differences on these items were only somewhat wider than differences by religious attendance or educational attainment and about as wide as the differences between blacks and whites ( 14 points , on average ) . Today , the party divide is much wider than any of these demographic differences .
In 5,566 interviews with registered voters conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press during the first two months of 2008 , 36 % identify themselves as Democrats , and just 27 % as Republicans . The Democratic Party has also built a substantial edge among independent voters . Of the 37 % who claim no party identification , 15 % lean Democratic , 10 % lean Republican , and 12 % have no leaning either way .
As Iranians prepare to elect a new president , the country 's international image is largely negative . Majorities in most of 39 countries surveyed have an unfavorable opinion of Iran , and most say Tehran does not respect the personal freedoms of its people . Meanwhile , any nuclear ambitions harbored by the Iranian government continue to draw strong opposition from Western countries , as well as neighboring states in the Middle East . Iran 's poor reputation for protecting personal freedoms does not help its international image . Majorities in 24 of 39 countries surveyed think Tehran does not respect the rights of its citizens . This includes three-quarters or more who hold this view in Europe and North America , as well as in Israel , Brazil , Australia and South Korea .
Currently , 64 % of voters say if the Republicans keep control of Congress , they are very or somewhat concerned that the GOP will not focus enough on oversight of the administration . A smaller majority ( 55 % ) expresses concern that if the Democrats take control of Congress , they will focus too much on investigating the Trump administration . In June , identical shares of voters ( 58 % each ) had concerns over both possible scenarios . By contrast , only about half of Republican voters ( 52 % ) say they are very concerned that if Democrats win control of Congress , they will focus too much on investigating the Trump administration . That is lower than the share of Republican voters ( 58 % ) expressing a high level of concern over Democratic overreach in June .
Today , about eight-in-ten Latino , black and white adults who are online use at least one of five social media sites – Facebook , Instagram , Pinterest , LinkedIn and Twitter . Among these , Facebook stands out as the most widely used platform , regardless of race or ethnicity : About seven-in-ten adult internet users ( 71 % ) say they use the site . But there are differences by race and ethnicity in the use of other social media sites , in particular Instagram . The photo-sharing site is more popular among Hispanic and black internet users than among white internet users . About one-third ( 34 % ) of online Hispanics use Instagram , as do 38 % of blacks . By comparison , only 21 % of whites use the network . By contrast , the social media site Pinterest is more popular among white internet users than among other groups . About one-third ( 32 % ) of whites use Pinterest , compared with 21 % of Hispanics and just 12 % of blacks . LinkedIn differs in that about equal shares of whites ( 29 % ) and blacks ( 28 % ) use the site , compared with 18 % of Hispanics . Meanwhile , Twitter has a more equal distribution . About one-in-four Hispanics and blacks use the site , along with 21 % of whites .
Religion is much more important to Americans than to people living in other wealthy nations . Six-in-ten ( 59 % ) people in the U.S. say religion plays a very important role in their lives . This is roughly twice the percentage of self-avowed religious people in Canada ( 30 % ) , and an even higher proportion when compared with Japan and Western Europe . Americans ' views are closer to people in developing nations than to the publics of developed nations . The 44-nation survey of the Pew Global Attitudes Project shows stark global regional divides over the personal importance of religion . [ 1 ] In Africa , no fewer than eight-in-ten in any country see religion as very important personally . Majorities in every Latin American country also subscribe to that view , with the exception of Argentina . More than nine-in-ten respondents in the predominantly Muslim nations of Indonesia , Pakistan , Mali and Senegal rate religion as personally very important . In Turkey and Uzbekistan , however , people are more divided over religion 's importance . Secularism is particularly prevalent throughout Europe . Even in heavily Catholic Italy fewer than three-in-ten ( 27 % ) people say religion is very important personally , a lack of intensity in belief that is consistent with opinion in other Western European nations . Attitudes are comparable in former Soviet bloc countries . In the Czech Republic , fully 71 % say religion has little or no importance in their lives — more than any nation surveyed — while barely one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say it is very important . And in Poland , the birthplace of the Pope and where the Catholic Church played a pivotal role during the communist era , just 36 % say religion is very important . The Global Attitudes study correlated views on religion with annual per capita income and found that wealthier nations tend to place less importance on religion — with the exception of the United States . This is seen most clearly in Asia , where publics in the two wealthiest nations surveyed — Japan and South Korea — are far less likely to cite religion as personally important than those in poorer nations of the region . The lone exception is Vietnam , however , where just 24 % of the public view religion as very important . ( Questions on the personal importance of religion were not permitted in China , and were deemed too sensitive to ask in Egypt , Jordan and Lebanon . )
Older Republicans offer considerably different views than their younger counterparts . Four-in-ten Republicans ages 65 or older say fathers should n't be able to take leave from work following the birth or adoption of a child , compared with 20 % of Republicans ages 50 to 64 , 10 % of those 30 to 49 , and 14 % of those 18 to 29 . Age differences are relatively small among Democrats .
Facebook is the revenue leader in display advertising , the area of digital advertising from which news organizations make most of their online revenue and where the social networking giant gets nearly all of its revenue . Display advertising – a format that includes banners and video ads – brought in $ 5.3 billion for Facebook in 2014 , eMarketer estimates . That amounts to almost a quarter of the total U.S. display ad market ( $ 22.2 billion ) and represents even stronger year-over-year growth than in 2013 . At the heart of Instant Articles is the mobile market , which has grown increasingly important as more people become smartphone owners , reading news and performing other tasks where advertisers can reach them . Indeed , mobile ad revenue grew 78 % in 2014 , to $ 19 billion , and was 37 % of all digital ad revenue , according to eMarketer data . As with general display advertising , Facebook is the leader in mobile display , and by a larger margin . In 2014 , the company took in more than one-third ( $ 3.5 billion ) of the $ 9.6 billion mobile display ad market . And these revenues continue to grow as a share of Facebook 's digital ad revenue , accounting for about two-thirds in 2014 . ( The company 's most recent earnings report puts mobile at around 73 % of Facebook 's total ad revenue in the first quarter of 2015 . )
Using the World Bank 's economic categorization of countries , most refugees are from low-income countries . In fact , the share of refugees from these poorer countries has increased slightly during the past decade , from 52 % in 2002 to 57 % by 2012 . Top low-income origin countries include Afghanistan ( 2.5 million in 2002 and 2.6 million in 2012 ) , Somalia ( 400,000 in 2002 and 1.1 million in 2012 ) and the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( 400,000 in 2002 and 500,000 in 2012 ) . The lower economic position of refugees is very different than most international migrants who increasingly come from middle-income countries . Most refugees are not living in high-income or low-income countries . In fact , it is middle-income countries ( often referred to as `` emerging nations '' ) that are more likely to host refugees , from 51 % of all refugees in 2002 to 57 % by 2012 . Examples of middle-income countries hosting a large number of refugees include Pakistan ( 1.2 million in 2002 , 1.6 million in 2012 ) , Iran ( 1.3 million in 2002 and 900,000 in 2012 ) and Jordan ( 1,000 in 2002 and 300,000 in 2012 ) . By contrast , international migrants as a whole are increasingly living in high-income countries .
Prior to the Civil War , higher education opportunities were virtually nonexistent for nearly all black Americans . In the years following the war , more colleges sprang up to meet the educational needs of the newly freed black population . Congress defines a historically black college or university ( HBCU ) as a school `` established prior to 1964 , whose principal mission was , and is , the education of black Americans . ''
Across these countries , a median of 66 % say being a member of the official or favored faith is very or somewhat important to national identity ( e.g . `` being truly Armenian '' ) . In most countries without an official or preferred religion , substantially smaller shares ( median of 43 % ) say this about the dominant religious group in their country . In Greece , for instance , where Greek Orthodoxy is the country 's official religion , 76 % of adults say being Orthodox is important to being Greek . In Poland , where the Roman Catholic Church is preferred by the government , 64 % say being Catholic is important to being truly Polish .
But a new Pew Research Center survey conducted in the three largest former Yugoslav republics finds that , in general , most people in Bosnia , Croatia and Serbia seem willing to share their societies with ethnic and religious groups different from their own – quite a change from the situation during the Yugoslav Wars . At the same time , some underlying signs of tension and distrust linger . The survey , conducted as part of a broader study of religion in Central and Eastern Europe , finds that Bosnia , the smallest of the three countries in population and in size , is also the most religiously diverse , with roughly half of adults identifying as Muslim and about one-third as Orthodox Christian . Croatia and Serbia each have a single dominant religion : More than eight-in-ten adults identify as Catholic and Orthodox , respectively .
And when compared with other wealthy nations , Americans also stand out for their religiosity and optimism . One widely shared chart ( above ) shows that Americans are much more likely than their wealthy counterparts to say that religion plays a very important role in their lives .
Prior to the election , Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton supporters had starkly different views about how life in America has changed over the past 50 years . About eight-in-ten Trump backers ( 81 % ) said life is worse than it was 50 years ago for people like them , compared with just 11 % who said it has gotten better . Most Clinton supporters took the opposite stance : About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) said life for people like them has gotten better over the past half-century , while 19 % said it has gotten worse .
Among those ages 16 and older , 40 % of Latinos say this , compared with 26 % of whites and 32 % of blacks . But here , too , the difference is driven entirely by foreign-born Latinos , half of whom say library closings would have a major impact on themselves and their families , while U.S.-born Latinos ' response is much more like the rest of the population ( 29 % say that the closing of their local public library would have a major impact on their family ) . When it comes to the impact the closing of their local public library would have on their community , two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Hispanics say the impact would be a major one , a similar share to that of whites ( 63 % ) and blacks ( 64 % ) . However , immigrant Hispanics are the most likely to see an impact on their community . Some 73 % say this , compared with 58 % of U.S.-born Hispanics .
Start with the voters . For years the Pew Research Center has asked people which party , if any , they identify with and whether they describe their political views as conservative , moderate or liberal . Put those results together and you get a portrait of polarization ; it clearly shows that self-described conservatives make up a greater share of Republicans in 2012 ( 68 % ) than they did in 2000 ( 59 % ) , while self-described liberals account for a greater share of Democrats ( 27 % in 2000 , 39 % in 2012 ) . ( There are considerably more independents — 37 % of respondents picked that label in 2012 versus 28 % in 2000 — but the proportions of liberals , moderates and conservatives within the independent group have stayed roughly the same . ) In addition , as The New York Times illustrated recently , red and blue America have very different racial and ethnic makeups . House districts represented by Democrats are collectively just over half white , 16 % black and nearly a quarter ( 22.5 % ) Hispanic ; Republican-represented districts are nearly three-quarters white , 8.5 % black and 11.1 % Hispanic .
Close to half ( 48 % ) of the public says that what they were reading and hearing about the plan in the news was `` mostly negative , '' while about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say what they read and heard was `` mostly positive . '' Some 17 % say they saw a mix of both , according to the Pew Research Center 's weekly News Interest Index survey conducted Feb. 6 - 9 .
As a cease-fire ends more than seven weeks of fighting in Gaza , the public expresses more sympathy for Israel than the Palestinians in their ongoing dispute . Most Americans say they sympathize `` a lot '' ( 34 % ) or `` some '' ( 32 % ) with Israel , while roughly a quarter sympathize with Israel `` not much '' ( 15 % ) or `` not at all '' ( 12 % ) . There is less public sympathy for the Palestinians : 11 % sympathize with Palestinians a lot , though 35 % have some sympathy for them . Nearly half say they have little ( 20 % ) or no sympathy ( 27 % ) for the Palestinians .
In 2004 , the five largest companies in local TV – Sinclair , Nexstar , Gray , Tegna and Tribune – owned , operated or serviced 179 full-power stations , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Securities and Exchange Commission filings data . That number grew to 378 in 2014 and to 443 in 2016 . If approved by regulators , Sinclair 's acquisition of Tribune would bring its total to 208 , by far the largest among the media companies . In 2016 , the five biggest local TV companies ' total broadcasting revenue was $ 8.3 billion , or 30 % higher than in 2014 , the previous major election year . And political advertising revenue grew by 31 % during this two-year period . ( Retransmission fee numbers are not reported separately for all five companies , though data for the industry overall show that this type of revenue has also been increasing rapidly . ) Since 2004 , these companies have more than doubled their broadcasting revenues , while their political advertising revenue has tripled .
Knowledge of science topics is also a factor in distinguishing those who are more concerned about the safety of vaccines . Americans who are high in science knowledge , based on a nine-item index of factual questions covering a range of topics , overwhelmingly rate the risk of side effects from the vaccine as low ( 79 % ) . By contrast , U.S. adults with low science knowledge are closely divided on whether the risk of side effects is low ( 50 % ) or is medium or higher ( 47 % ) . ( More details on the index of science knowledge are available in Chapter 4 and the Methodology section of the related report , `` The Politics of Climate . '' )
Americans say their nation 's colleges and universities compare relatively well with those in other developed countries – but the public offers more negative assessments of the state of U.S. public schools . About half of U.S. adults say the country 's colleges and universities are either the `` best in the world '' ( 16 % ) or `` above average '' ( 35 % ) compared with those in other developed nations , according to a recent Pew Research Center report . By comparison , just 18 % say U.S. public schools rank above average or higher internationally , while 41 % of Americans say public schools are below average ( 37 % rate them as average ) .
In today 's technology-driven world , is it best for children to hone their science and math skills to catch up with other countries that outperform the U.S. ? Or is it best for them to be more well-rounded , with strong arts and athletic skills as well ? Or perhaps parents should instead focus on encouraging less tangible skills in their kids , such as teamwork , logic and basic communication skills . Pew Research Center recently asked a national sample of adults to select among a list of 10 skills : `` Regardless of whether or not you think these skills are good to have , which ones do you think are most important for children to get ahead in the world today ? '' The answer was clear . Across the board , more respondents said communication skills were most important , followed by reading , math , teamwork , writing and logic . Science fell somewhere in the middle , with more than half of Americans saying it was important .
There has been considerable interest in specific demographic breakdowns of the general public 's answers to science-related questions that Pew Research covered in its recent report on science issues and the gaps between citizens and scientists ' opinions on a range of issues . Here are additional demographic breakdowns of views among the general public based on a nationally representative survey of 2,002 U.S. adults conducted August 15 - 25 , 2014 . By a 57 % -37 % margin , the public believes that genetically-modified foods ( GM foods ) are generally unsafe to eat . This is a major contrast with scientists Pew Research surveyed . Some 3,748 U.S.-based members of the AAAS were surveyed from September 11 to October 13 , 2014 and they said such foods were generally safe to eat by an 88 % -11 % margin . The nearby chart of the data from the survey of the general public shows several patterns . Those more likely to think genetically modified food is unsafe include : women , African-Americans and Hispanics , and those without college degrees .
The survey finds that the ongoing stalemate over raising the debt ceiling may be taking a toll on views of national conditions . Just 17 % say they are satisfied with the way things are going in the country , down from 23 % last month and the lowest measure since late 2008 , during the financial crisis . Barack Obama 's job approval ratings remain mixed – 44 % approve of his job performance while 48 % disapprove . But Obama 's ratings are far less positive than they were in May , immediately after the death of Osama bin Laden ( 56 % approve ) .
There is also a significant gender gap in attitudes on policing , with female officers less likely than their male counterparts to agree that aggressive tactics are sometimes necessary . Among female officers , 48 % agree that it is more useful to be aggressive than to be courteous in certain parts of the city , compared with 58 % of male officers . A third of female officers – but 46 % of male officers – agree that some people can only be brought to reason the hard , physical way .
However , the survey finds that two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Latino registered voters say they talked about the immigration policy debate with someone they know in the past year . It also finds that those who have had these conversations are more motivated to vote in the upcoming election than are those who have n't . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) Latino registered voters who have discussed the immigration debate say they are absolutely certain they will vote in November , compared with just four-in-ten ( 39 % ) of those who have not talked about the immigration debate .
Americans overwhelmingly say the nation 's immigration policy is in need of sweeping changes . Overall , 75 % say immigration policy needs at least major changes , with 35 % saying it needs to be `` completely rebuilt '' —among the highest of seven policy areas tested .
On Election Day , ca n't you just smell the excitement in the air ? Actually , you probably ca n't : An overwhelming majority of voters live in congressional districts with little real competition , and a handful without any at all . A Pew Research Center report last week used ratings and analyses by such sources as the Cook Political Report and Real Clear Politics to estimate that there are only 14 truly competitive House elections this year . But the ratings are only predictions , and if history is any guide several more House races will turn out closer than expected . In 2012 , for instance , 29 House candidates won by less than 5 percentage points over their closest rival ; another 34 won by at least five but fewer than 10 percentage points . Still , that 's only 63 races out of 435 House districts , representing around 15 % of eligible voters . We wondered how those figures compare with earlier elections , so we examined data from two separate sources . Using data from the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey , we estimated how many eligible voters there were in each congressional district from 2006 ( when the ACS series begins ) through 2012 . ( Quick refresher : Eligible voters are 18 years or older and either native-born or naturalized U.S . citizens . ) We obtained vote totals for every House race from the House Clerk 's office . As it turns out , the number of close races — those decided by fewer than 5 percentage points — does n't vary all that much from election cycle to election cycle : from a low of 25 in 2008 up to 38 in the Tea Party year of 2010 , when Republicans regained control of the House . Raising the victory-margin threshold to 10 percentage points roughly doubled the number of districts that could be considered competitive . Even so , at least eight of every 10 eligible voters resided in districts without competitive races .
There also is a significant difference in views of whether Trump and Biden are courageous . While 91 % of voters who support Trump describe their candidate as courageous , fewer Biden supporters ( 75 % ) say the same about him . For example , while 71 % of Trump voters ages 40 and older describe Trump as a good role model , a much smaller majority of those under age 40 describe him this way . There also are wide age differences among Trump supporters in perceptions of Trump as honest and that he cares about ordinary people , with fewer younger Trump supporters saying these descriptions apply .
Close to half of the public ( 48 % ) says they followed news about conditions of the U.S. economy very closely last week , while a third ( 33 % ) says they followed this news fairly closely . The economy was the story followed most closely by 27 % of the public ; reports on the economy ( including the stock market ) accounted for 35 % of the total newshole , according to PEJ . Almost four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they followed stock market reports very closely , while 31 % say they followed those reports fairly closely . For 17 % , this was the story they followed most closely . Stock market fluctuations considered separately made up 2 % of the newshole analyzed by PEJ . Obama 's decision to reverse Bush administration limits on federal funding for embryonic stem cell research was followed very closely by 31 % and fairly closely by another 30 % . The issue garnered about as much attention as when President Bush announced the plan to limit funding for the research in 2001 ( 31 % followed very closely and 34 % fairly closely ) . This was the most closely followed story of the week for 15 % of the public and took up 5 % of the newshole . More than a quarter ( 27 % ) say they followed news about Bernard Madoff 's guilty plea to charges he cheated investors of billions of dollars very closely . Another 33 % followed that story fairly closely , while 10 % said it was the story they followed most closely last week . Reporting on the Madoff story accounted for 7 % of the total newshole .
One area where it appears that Republicans who rely most on Trump for COVID-19 news have heard his message is how susceptible people under the age of 18 are to becoming infected with the virus – a subject that has often surfaced in debates over reopening schools this fall . The president has at times claimed that the risk to young people is minimal ; the CDC says it is `` unclear '' whether children are as susceptible to infection as adults . Around six-in-ten Republicans ( including leaners ) who rely most on Trump and the task force for COVID-19 news ( 57 % ) say people under 18 are far less susceptible to becoming infected than adults , while 30 % say they are about as susceptible . But Republicans who do n't rely the most on Trump for coronavirus news are much more divided : 39 % say young people are far less susceptible than adults , and 41 % say they are about as susceptible .
Partisan divides dwarf demographic differences on key political values . The average gap between the views of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents and Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents across 10 political values has increased from 15 percentage points in 1994 to 36 points today . Two decades ago , the average partisan differences on these items were only slightly wider than differences by religious attendance or educational attainment , and about as wide as differences across racial lines . Today , the partisan gaps far exceed differences across other key demographics .
Scientists ' views have moved in the same direction . Though scientists hold mostly positive assessments of the state of science and their scientific specialty today , they are less sanguine than they were in 2009 when Pew Research conducted a previous survey of AAAS members . The downturn is shared widely among AAAS scientists regardless of discipline and employment sector . Overall , 54 % of adults consider U.S. scientific achievements to be either the best in the world ( 15 % ) or above average ( 39 % ) compared with other industrial countries . Of the seven aspects of American society rated , only one was seen more favorably : the U.S. military . Compared with 2009 , however , the share saying that U.S. scientific achievements are the best in the world or above average is down 11 points , from 65 % in 2009 to 54 % today . More now see U.S. scientific achievements as `` average '' in the global context ( up from 26 % in 2009 to 34 % today ) or `` below average '' ( up slightly from 5 % in 2009 to 9 % today ) . Perceptions of some other key sectors , including U.S. health care , also dropped during this timeframe . See Chapter 2 for details .
For instance , 78 % of Republicans and Republican leaners living in districts that Republican candidates for Congress won by wide margins in 2016 said the quality of those who ran for Congress in the last several elections was very or somewhat good , compared with 53 % of Democrats in these districts . Similarly , while 71 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners in safe Democratic districts said candidate quality in their district had generally been good , that compares with just 50 % of Republicans and Republican leaners in these districts .
French Muslims do share many opinions with their co-religionists in neighboring countries . Primary among them is concern about joblessness . More than half of French Muslims ( 52 % ) say they are very worried about unemployment among Muslims — the primary complaint of last fall 's rioters — and an additional 32 % say they are somewhat concerned . These levels are comparable to those expressed by Spanish , German and , to a slightly lesser degree , by British Muslims . ( Curiously , among French Muslims , only 48 % of those under age 35 say they are very worried about unemployment compared with 59 % of their elders . )
Just 17 % say they followed news about potential breast cancer risks for women taking hormone treatments very closely and 8 % say this was the story they followed most closely . This story received less than 1 % of coverage . Not surprisingly , women were twice as likely to track this story very closely as men were ( 22 % vs. 11 % ) and nearly three-in-ten women 50 or older ( 28 % ) say they followed this news very closely . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed developments about the `` Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell '' policy concerning gays in the military very closely ; 6 % say they followed this news more closely than any other major story . News about the policy accounted for 2 % of coverage . One-in-ten ( 10 % ) say they followed news about Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas 's wife calling Anita Hill to seek an apology for her harassment claims during the justice 's 1991 confirmation hearings . Democrats ( 14 % ) are slightly more likely to say they followed this story very closely than Republicans ( 8 % ) or independents ( 8 % ) . Just 2 % say this was the story they followed most closely ; news about the call from Ginni Thomas to Anita Hill accounted for 2 % of coverage .
Many people around the world think it is necessary to believe in God to be a moral person , according to surveys in 39 countries by the Pew Research Center . However , this view is more common in poorer countries than in wealthier ones . In 22 of 39 countries surveyed , clear majorities say it is necessary to believe in God to be moral and have good values . This position is highly prevalent , if not universal , in Africa and the Middle East . At least three-quarters in all six countries surveyed in Africa say that faith in God is essential to morality . In the Middle East , roughly seven-in-ten or more agree in Egypt , Jordan , Turkey , the Palestinian territories , Tunisia and Lebanon . Across the two regions , only in Israel does a majority think it is not necessary to believe in God to be an upright person .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 10 - 15 among 1,708 Americans , finds that despite the sweeping changes in Washington , the public remains dubious about prospects for bipartisanship . Only about a quarter ( 28 % ) believes that relations between the two parties will improve over the next year . And while the new Congress is less than a month old , just 39 % believe Democratic leaders are making an effort to reach out to Republicans on policy solutions , and even fewer see President Bush reaching out to Democrats ( 33 % ) .
A majority of U.S. teens ( 59 % ) have experienced some form of cyberbullying . About four-in-ten teens ages 13 to 17 ( 42 % ) say they have been called offensive names online or on their cellphone , 32 % say they have had false rumors spread about them and one-quarter report that they have received explicit images they did n't ask for . At the same time , nine-in-ten teens say online harassment is a problem that affects their peers . And while a majority of teens think parents are doing a good job addressing the issue , they are critical of the way teachers , social media companies and politicians are tackling cyberbullying .
The edge in favorability ratings that Barack Obama had enjoyed throughout the campaign has now been erased , as voters ' impressions of Romney have continued to improve while Obama 's ratings have returned to levels seen earlier in the summer . Currently , voters are about evenly divided in their overall opinions of both Obama ( 49 % favorable , 48 % unfavorable ) and Romney ( 50 % favorable , 46 % unfavorable ) .
Facebook remains a dominant force in teens ' social media ecosystems , even as Instagram and Snapchat have risen into a prominent role in teens ' online lives . Asked which platforms they used most often , the overall population of teens in this sample ( ages 13 to 17 ) reported that Facebook was the site they used most frequently ( 41 % said that ) , followed by Instagram ( 20 % ) and Snapchat ( 11 % ) .
Among parents , the median number of Facebook friends is 150 , while the typical non-parent Facebook user has a median of 200 friends . The largest group of parents on Facebook ( 42 % ) have between 0 and 100 Facebook friends on the network . Another 20 % of parents say they have between 101 and 250 friends , while 23 % have between 251 and 500 friends . Non-parents are more likely than parents to have very large Facebook networks — 16 % of non-parent Facebook users have more than 500 Facebook friends , compared with 11 % of parents . Facebook networks are composed of a variety of people , not all of whom are necessarily considered close . Parents who use Facebook were asked how many of their friends on the platform they considered `` actual friends . '' A majority , 76 % , said they considered between 0 and 100 of their Facebook friends `` actual friends . '' The typical parent reports a median of 50 `` actual '' Facebook friends , while the typical non-parent counts 40 of their Facebook friends as `` actual '' friends . As noted above , parents report having a median of 150 Facebook friends , and non-parents report having a median of 200 Facebook friends . Thus , a typical parent 's Facebook network is about one-third `` actual '' friends , while non-parents typically report that less than a quarter of their network is made up of actual friends . Parents are more likely to be Facebook friends with their parents than non-parents , 53 % vs. 40 % . They also are more likely to be friends with their neighbors on the network , 41 % vs. 34 % of non-parents .
But Obama 's weakest ratings come on perceptions of his effectiveness , leadership and honesty – and negative views on all three traits have increased by double digits since the start of 2013 . Currently , 43 % say Obama is able to get things done , while more ( 51 % ) say he is not able to accomplish things . In January , more viewed Obama as able to get things done , by 57 % to 37 % .
About a quarter of social media users – 26 % – say they follow science pages or accounts . These users are more likely to consider social media an important source of their science news and are evenly divided over whether they mostly trust or distrust the science posts they see ( 49 % to 49 % ) .
About four-in-ten Americans express support for the Black Lives Matter movement , but blacks are considerably more likely to do so than whites or Hispanics . About two-thirds of blacks ( 65 % ) say they strongly or somewhat support the movement , compared with 40 % of whites and 32 % of Hispanics .
At the same time , smartphone owners are relatively divided on the essential necessity of mobile connectivity : 54 % say that their phone is `` not always needed , '' while 46 % say that it is something they `` could n't live without . ''
As in the past , there are wide religious differences in Middle East sympathies . White evangelical Protestants continue to overwhelmingly sympathize with Israel : 78 % say this , while just 5 % sympathize more with the Palestinians . Other religious groups sympathize more with Israel than the Palestinians , though by much smaller margins . Religiously unaffiliated people are divided : 29 % sympathize more with the Palestinians , 26 % more with Israel and 24 % say they side with both or neither .
Fully 63 % of Americans approve of the Obama administration 's decision last month to re-establish diplomatic ties with Cuba after more than 50 years . And there is equally broad support for going further and ending the decades-long U.S. trade embargo against Cuba ( 66 % favor this ) . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 7 - 11 among 1,504 adults , finds strong support among Democrats and independents for the restoration of diplomatic ties with Cuba , and for ending the embargo . About three-quarters of Democrats ( 74 % ) , along with 67 % of independents support the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries , with similar levels of support for ending the trade embargo , `` which would allow U.S. companies to do business in Cuba and Cuban companies to do business in the U.S . ''
The narrowing in the middle happened for all major racial and ethnic groups . From 1990 to 2013 , the share of adult whites and Asians living in middle-income households decreased the most , from 58 % to 53 % and from 56 % to 50 % , respectively . The decline was less pronounced among Hispanics ( from 48 % to 47 % ) and blacks ( 47 % to 45 % ) . Nonetheless , sharp differences persist across racial and ethnic groups in the distribution of adults by income tiers . In 2013 , 44 % each of Hispanic and black adults were lower income , compared with 23 % of whites and 24 % of Asians . At the top , about one-in-four whites and Asian adults are upper income , compared with only about one-in-ten Hispanics and blacks . There is no meaningful change in these gaps in the past two decades . ( Consistent data on racial and ethnic categories are only available for 1987 onward . ) However , the overall gains mask a lengthy period – a lost decade , and then some – of losses from 2000 to 2013 . During this time , the median incomes of lower- , middle- and upper-income households have fallen by 9 % , 6 % and 6 % , respectively . Currently , the incomes of these households are comparable to what they were in 1997 .
Since 1999 , in fact , 134 separate balanced-budget amendments have been formally introduced in either the House or Senate , making it the single most popular subject of amendment proposals over that timespan , according to our analysis of legislative data from the Library of Congress . Just in the current Congress , there are 18 separate balanced-budget proposals , out of a total of 64 proposed amendments to the Constitution .
The survey finds that Obama 's job approval rating among the general public is little changed from August : 43 % say they approve of the way Obama is handling his job as president , while 48 % disapprove . In August , 43 % approved and 49 % disapproved . Obama 's current job rating is down from May , when 52 % approved of the way he was handling his job .
Democratic voters , in particular , place value on candidates who will make compromises : 63 % say this , compared with 31 % who prioritize sticking to core values . Republican voters , by contrast , are more likely to value candidates who stick to their core values ( 57 % vs. 35 % ) .
Hispanic registered voters support Democrat Barack Obama for president over Republican John McCain by 66 % to 23 % , according to a nationwide survey of 2,015 Latinos conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center , from June 9 through July 13 , 2008 . The presumptive Democratic nominee 's strong showing in this survey represents a sharp reversal in his fortunes from the primaries , when Obama lost the Latino vote to Hillary Clinton by a nearly two-to-one ratio , giving rise to speculation in some quarters that Hispanics were disinclined to vote for a black candidate .
For those in their first year of teaching who worked a summer job in the months before the 2015 - 16 school year , the money earned during that time of year amounted to a larger portion of their annual income on average ( 12 % ) compared with their peers with more teaching experience . Those who had been teaching for one year or less and worked a second job during the school year brought in a similar proportion of their income from the additional work ( 11 % ) .
Russians are nostalgic for the era of the Soviet Union . Nearly seven-in-ten Russians ( 69 % ) say the breakup of the Soviet Union was a bad thing for Russia . Just 17 % say it was a good thing . Older Russians , those ages 50 and older , are much more likely to say that the breakup of the USSR was a bad thing ( 85 % ) . Only 44 % of young Russians say the same , though around a quarter ( 27 % ) have no opinion , probably owing to the fact that 18- to 29-year-olds were children or not even born when the Soviet Union collapsed in the early 1990s .
First is the `` one-party surge , '' where one of the parties significantly increases its vote from the previous midterm while the other party 's vote remains essentially unchanged . That is what happened in 1994 , when Republicans won control of both houses of Congress . The nationwide GOP congressional vote spiked by more than 9 million votes from 1990 , the biggest increase in one party 's vote from one midterm to another since World War II . Meanwhile , the Democratic total declined by 400,000 votes . Another way to produce a big change in Congress is a `` one-party collapse , '' where a huge number of voters from one of the parties simply sit out the election . That is what happened in 1974 , when the dispiriting backdrop of the Watergate scandal led to a nearly 3-million vote falloff in the Republican House vote from 1970 . The Democratic vote grew by barely 1 million . But the GOP drop off was so severe that it cost the Republicans nearly 50 House seats . A third way to effect considerable change in Congress is what might be called `` unequal gains , '' where both parties add votes from the previous midterm but one party gains far more than the other . That happened in 1982 , President Reagan 's first midterm , when the Republican congressional vote grew by more than 3 million from 1978 , but the Democratic tally swelled by more than 6 million . The result : a gain of roughly two dozen House seats for the Democrats .
As he begins his final year in office , President Bush 's standing with the public continues to worsen . While his overall job approval ratings are holding steady , the balance of opinion is roughly two-to-one negative ( 31 % approve , 59 % disapprove ) . And the number of Americans — including many within the president 's own party — who see the failures of his administration outweighing the accomplishments continues to rise , and a record high number say this year 's State of the Union address is less important than in past years . A 59 % majority of Americans believe that , in the long run , the failures of the Bush administration will outweigh the accomplishments , up from 53 % a year ago . Half as many ( 28 % ) say Bush 's accomplishments will outweigh his failures . By comparison , in January 2004 — at the outset of Bush 's re-election campaign — more saw the administrations accomplishments carrying more weight ( 49 % ) than its failures ( 36 % ) . This dour view of the Bush presidency stands in contrast to public sentiment at the same point in Bill Clinton 's presidency . In January of 2000 , 51 % felt the Clinton administrations main legacy would be its accomplishments , while just 37 % said the failures would stand out .
At this early point in his term , a plurality ( 42 % ) of Americans say that Trump is `` striking the right balance '' when it comes to Middle East policy . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say Trump favors Israel too much , while just 3 % say Trump favors the Palestinians too much ; 25 % do not offer an opinion . Today , nearly half of Democrats ( 46 % ) say Trump favors Israel too much , while just 21 % say he is striking the right balance . In 2010 , more Republicans said Obama supported the Palestinians too much ( 38 % ) than said he struck the right balance .
Another set of questions focused on the kinds of `` data exhaust '' that is generated as a result of everyday forms of online communications , web surfing and application use . Respondents were asked how much they cared `` that only you and those you authorize should have access '' to certain kinds of behavioral data and communications content and there was notable variance in the answers . The content of email messages and the people with whom one communicates via email are considerably more sensitive pieces of information when compared with other online activities and associated data trails .
But the U.S. public 's anxieties about China are not exclusively economic in nature . When asked about eight specific issues affecting the U.S.-China relationship , majorities of Americans rank all eight as at least a somewhat serious problem , with roughly six-in-ten citing the large amount of U.S. debt held by China ( 62 % ) and cyberattacks as very serious problems ( 58 % ) .
A starker example of the limits of disaster relief is Pakistan . Following a devastating October 2005 earthquake in northern Pakistan , the U.S. pledged significant levels of aid , eventually totaling more than $ 500 million . Shortly after the tragedy , U.S. Chinook helicopters could be seen rescuing victims . A spring 2006 Global Attitudes survey found that the vast majority of Pakistanis were aware of American relief efforts – 85 % said they had heard about post-earthquake aid – and views of the U.S. improved modestly , with 27 % of Pakistanis giving the U.S. a positive rating , up from 23 % the previous year .
Overall , 62 % of Republicans say average Republicans in the country generally agree with Trump on most issues . However , three-in-ten say that average Republicans do not agree with Trump 's positions on issues .
The controversy over the millions of dollars in bonuses paid to AIG employees attracted considerable public interest last week . In fact , about as many people tracked that story very closely ( 50 % ) as followed news about the overall economy very closely ( 52 % ) . The AIG controversy was the most closely followed story of the week for 29 % of Americans , approaching that of the economic crisis overall ( 35 % ) .
Latinos voted for President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden over Republicans Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan by a margin of more than two-to-one in the 2012 presidential election , 71 % versus 27 % , according to an analysis of exit polls by the Pew Hispanic Center , a Project of the Pew Research Center .
The total number of deportations reached a record number of 419,384 in fiscal year 2012 , according to the Department of Homeland Security . With roughly three years left in Barack Obama 's second term , more than 1.6 million undocumented immigrants have been deported since he took office . In former President Bush 's eight years in office , two million were deported .
The campaign was also a top news story last week . Roughly a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) followed campaign news very closely and 22 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . The Iraq war , which has been the public 's most closely followed news story throughout much of the year , has nearly fallen off the media 's radar screen . Last week , the national media devoted 2 % of its overall coverage to events in Iraq making it the ninth most heavily covered news story of the week . The previous week the war received 3 % of the national news coverage , placing it eighth overall . In spite of reduced coverage , the public is still following events in Iraq fairly closely , illustrating the continuing importance the public places on the story . Last week , 28 % of Americans paid very close attention to news about the current situation and events in Iraq and 13 % listed this as their most closely followed news story .
But there are wide partisan gaps in these views – with Republicans much more confident than Democrats in the fairness and accessibility of the election . While three-quarters of Republicans and Republican leaners say they are at least somewhat confident the upcoming election will be conducted fairly and accurately , just 46 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say the same ( with a majority saying they are not too or not at all confident in this ) . The partisan gap is even wider when it comes to ballot access . Nearly nine-in-ten Republicans express at least some confidence that `` all citizens who want to vote in the election will be able to '' – including 41 % who say they are very confident about this . By comparison , just 43 % of Democrats say they are at least somewhat confident all citizens who want to vote will be able to do so , while 56 % say they are not too or not at all confident about this . Among Democrats , confidence that the presidential election in November will be conducted fairly and accurately varies by ideology as well as by race and ethnicity . About half of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 52 % ) say they are either somewhat or very confident that the election will be conducted fairly and accurately , compared with 37 % of liberal Democrats who say this . Similarly , while about half of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 53 % ) are somewhat or very confident that all citizens who want to vote will be able to do , 31 % of liberals hold this view .
Meanwhile , roughly half of users feel the political conversations they see on social media are angrier ( 49 % ) , less respectful ( 53 % ) and less civil ( 49 % ) than those in other areas of life . At the same time , a notable minority feels that the political discussions they see on social media are largely reflective of the political discussions they witness in other areas of their lives : For instance , 39 % of users feel that these interactions are no more less respectful than other political interactions they encounter . And a small share finds political debates on social media to be more civil ( 7 % ) , more informative ( 14 % ) and more focused on important policy issues ( 10 % ) than those they see elsewhere .
Most Indians see Pakistan , their neighbor to the west , as a threat . When asked how serious of a danger Pakistan poses for India , about three-quarters in India ( 76 % ) say Pakistan is a threat , including 63 % who say it is a very serious threat . Only 7 % of Indians do not see Pakistan as a danger for their country .
Public trust in information from scientists in both these areas tends to be higher than it is for information provided by several other groups , particularly industry leaders , the news media and elected officials . But fewer than half of the public trusts information from scientists `` a lot . '' Some 39 % of adults trust climate scientists a lot to give full and accurate information about the causes of climate change . A similar share ( 35 % ) of adults trust scientists a lot to give full and accurate information about the health effects of GM foods .
Asked about their plans for the coming year , most current users of Facebook say they expect their usage levels will stay about the same . But around one in four say they plan to cut back on their Facebook usage in 2013 : Young adults are the most likely forecasters of decreased engagement . Some 38 % of Facebook users ages 18 - 29 expect to spend less time using the site in 2013 , although a majority of users across age groups anticipate that their Facebook usage will remain largely stable in the year to come .
The survey also included a two-part open-ended question . Adults who had decided not to use a product or service out of concern for their personal information were asked to describe a recent situation where they decided not to use a product or service . They were then asked , specifically , what the product or service was , and what they found problematic . Roughly one-in-five Americans ( 21 % ) said they decided not to use particular websites . A smaller share ( 11 % ) said they decided not to use certain electronics . Similar shares said they avoided social media or specific services such as DNA ancestry kits , financial tools or health care .
Overall , the share of Americans who say gun laws in the U.S. should be made stricter has increased from 52 % in 2017 to 60 % this year , according to a survey conducted in September . The share of those saying gun laws should be less strict has dropped from 18 % in 2017 to 11 % today .
In the current survey , 51 % of Democrats have a favorable opinion of the federal government in Washington , compared with 27 % of independents and just 20 % of Republicans . This contrasts with partisan views of the federal government when George W. Bush was president . As recently as 2008 , Republicans held a more favorable opinion of the federal government in Washington ( 53 % ) than did Democrats ( 29 % ) . Since Barack Obama 's first year in office , public assessments of the federal government have dropped nine-points , with most of the change among Democrats and independents . In 2009 , 61 % of Democrats and 35 % of independents had favorable opinions of the federal government in Washington , those figures stand at 51 % and 27 % , respectively , today . Republicans ' views , already low in 2009 , have shown less change . While Republicans offer an overwhelmingly negative assessment of the federal government in Washington , they take a far more positive view of state governments than do either Democrats or independents . Among Republicans , more have a favorable than unfavorable view of their state government , by a 62 % to 34 % margin . Democrats ( 50 % favorable , 45 % unfavorable ) and independents ( 49 % , 44 % ) are divided .
The number of minorities named to the federal courts has increased faster under Democratic presidents than Republican presidents . From 1945 to today – a period in which Republicans and Democrats have each occupied the White House for a total of 36 years – Democratic presidents have appointed three times as many black judges as their Republican counterparts ( 162 vs. 49 ) . Democrats have also named more Hispanic judges to the federal bench ( 73 vs. 51 ) . Still , eight-in-ten Democratic appointees have been non-Hispanic whites , compared with nine-in-ten Republican appointees . Minorities are somewhat less likely to be represented in the nation 's 13 courts of appeals than in the 94 district courts , accounting for just 12 % of appellate judges commissioned since 1945 and 15 % of district judges . There has never been Native American or Pacific Islander representation in the appellate courts . Nearly half of the minority appellate judges were originally appointed to the district court and were later reappointed to a higher court .
But slowly , opinions have begun to change over the course of the past two decades . By 2014 , a healthy 57 % majority had come to the opposite point of view , saying that immigrants strengthened the country through their hard work ; and just 35 % now say that the increasing number of immigrants is threatening American values . ( As of January 2019 , 62 % say immigrants strengthen the country , while 28 % say they burden the country by taking jobs , housing and health care . )
The number of recent arrivals from regions other than Mexico also declined , but less sharply . So as Mexicans became a shrinking share of recent arrivals , the share of all unauthorized immigrants who had arrived from Asia within the previous five years increased from 13 % in 2007 to 22 % in 2016 . The share from the Northern Triangle nations in Central America grew from 11 % to 18 % . In addition , the share from the rest of the world ( other than Asia , Central America and Mexico ) rose to more than a third of recent arrivals in 2016 , compared with about a quarter in 2007 .
However , most Americans ( 60 % ) think the U.S. effort against ISIS will definitely or probably succeed . A 45 % plurality say the U.S. and its allies will probably succeed against the Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria , while 15 % think they will definitely succeed . About one-third ( 34 % ) thinks the campaign will probably fail ( 28 % ) or definitely fail ( 5 % ) . Similar shares of Democrats ( 62 % ) and Republicans ( 61 % ) expect the to be a success .
When asked about seven potential international threats , Canadians are clearly most concerned about the Islamic militant group in Iraq and Syria known as ISIS . Roughly six-in-ten Canadians ( 58 % ) say they are very concerned about ISIS . Canadians are also very worried about global climate change ( 45 % ) and Iran 's nuclear program ( 43 % ) . And 39 % are concerned about cyberattacks .
A majority of women say the country has n't gone far enough when it comes to giving women equal rights with men . About six-in-ten women ( 57 % ) hold this view , compared with 42 % of men . But there are sharp differences by political affiliation and – among Democrats – education . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of women who are Democrats or Democratic-leaning independents say the country has n't gone far enough on gender equality , compared with just a third ( 33 % ) of women who are Republican or Republican leaners . Among Democrats , women with a college degree are more likely than less-educated women to say the country has n't gone far enough on gender equality .
If confirmed , Gorsuch , who currently serves on the 10th U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals in Colorado , would join at least 68 others with prior experience as judges . Of these , at least 30 also came from U.S. appellate courts . And like the vast majority of Supreme Court justices – 104 so far – Gorsuch would bring private practice experience to the court . While less common , Gorsuch 's previous role as principal deputy to the associate attorney general puts him in line with at least 23 justices who served in the U.S. Department of Justice .
What might have damaged Bush 's legacy most was his administration 's mixed record of competent governance . Between Iraq , the government 's flawed relief effort in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina , and more minor missteps over the Dubai ports issue and other matters , the government `` brand '' deteriorated badly during the Bush years . In late April 2008 , just 37 % expressed a favorable view of the federal government , about half of the percentage of five years earlier ( 73 % ) .
While the public offers mixed views of Obama 's effectiveness in a gridlocked political environment , most say he fights hard to get his policies passed ( 67 % ) and 76 % describe him as someone who stands up for what he believes in . Both impressions hold with majorities of Republicans , Democrats and independents . Views of his leadership and effectiveness , by contrast , are highly polarized .
Educational attainment is an especially important factor when it comes to perceptions of the conspiracy theory . Around half of Americans with a high school diploma or less education ( 48 % ) say the theory is probably or definitely true , according to the survey , which was conducted as part of the Center 's American News Pathways project . That compares with 38 % of those who have completed some college but have no degree , 24 % of those with a bachelor 's degree and 15 % of those with a postgraduate degree . Roughly a third of Black ( 33 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 34 % ) say the theory is probably or definitely true , compared with about two-in-ten white adults ( 22 % ) and Asian Americans ( 19 % ) . And women are slightly more likely than men ( 29 % vs. 21 % ) to see at least some truth in the conspiracy theory that powerful people planned the outbreak .
Among Democrats , however , there are differences across demographic traits , especially when it comes to education and age . About three-in-ten Democrats with at least a college degree ( 29 % ) feel misunderstood by the news media , compared with 42 % of those with some college education and 47 % of those with a high school diploma or less . Democrats ages 50 and older are also less likely to feel misunderstood than those under age 50 ( 35 % vs. 44 % ) .
News about the economy has been overshadowed by the Gulf oil leak in recent weeks . And in the public 's view , the economic news has not improved . Currently , 65 % say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , while 30 % say they are hearing mostly bad news and just 4 % say they are hearing mostly good news .
On the broader question of overall race relations in American society , the overwhelming majority ( 92 % ) of white officers say the U.S. has made the changes needed to give blacks equal rights with whites ; just 29 % of black officers agree . The general public is divided along racial lines on this question , too , but not as much as police officers : About six-in-ten whites ( 57 % ) say the country has made the changes needed to bring about equal rights for blacks , compared with just 12 % of blacks .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Feb. 22-Mar . 1 among 1,504 adults , finds a modest recovery in public trust in government from historic lows last year . Yet even with this uptick , the general mood remains overwhelmingly negative . Just 29 % say they can trust the government in Washington to do what is right just about always or most of the time , up from 22 % last March . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) say they trust the government only some of the time or never , compared with 76 % a year ago .
Detailed questions about perceptions of Islam show that a plurality of the public ( 45 % ) says Islam is no more likely than other faiths to encourage violence among its believers ; 38 % take the opposite view , saying that Islam does encourage violence more than other faiths do . Views on this question have fluctuated in recent years , with the current findings showing that the view that Islam is connected with violence has declined since 2007 , when 45 % of the public said that Islam encourages violence more than other religions do .
A record 23.7 million Latinos are eligible to vote in the 2012 presidential election , according to an analysis of Census Bureau data by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center . This is up by more than 4 million , or 22 % , since 2008 , when 19.5 million Latinos were eligible to vote .
Majorities of adults under 50 say the internet has been essential to them during the coronavirus outbreak , compared with about a third of those 65 and older . An early April survey found that as people turned to the internet to replace in-person social and business encounters , about six-in-ten adults under 30 ( 62 % ) said the internet has been essential to them during the outbreak , while 65 % of adults ages 30 to 49 felt this way . This compares with about half ( 49 % ) of those ages 50 to 64 and 31 % of those 65 and older . The same survey found that younger adults were more likely than others to have held virtual parties and gatherings with their family and friends , watched concerts or other live-streamed events and participated in online fitness activities . For example , 48 % of adults ages 18 to 29 had a virtual party or gathering online , compared with about two-in-ten of those 50 and older .
Views on whether whites benefit from societal advantages that blacks do not have are split sharply along racial and partisan lines . Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 78 % ) say white people benefit at least a fair amount from advantages that blacks do not have . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , 72 % say whites do not benefit much or at all from these advantages . An overwhelming majority of blacks ( 92 % ) say whites benefit from societal advantages , while just 46 % of whites say the same .
Journalism educators attending last week 's conference held by the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication were greeted with news of the shrinking population in their classrooms . According to a new report from the University of Georgia ( pdf ) , undergraduate enrollments in journalism and mass communication programs declined 2.9 % in 2012 , marking only the second time in two decades that they have dropped for two consecutive years . They fell 0.5 % in 2011 .
In particular , conservative and moderate Democrats are expressing less satisfaction about the field of Democratic candidates than they have in the past . Currently , 45 % of conservative and moderate Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters view the Democratic candidates running for the nomination as either excellent or good . At this point in the campaign in 2007 , fully 62 % of conservative and moderate Democratic registered voters had positive assessments of the Democratic field .
A 46 % plurality of U.S. adults say Trump did something wrong regarding Ukraine and that it was enough to justify his removal from office , according to the Center 's survey . Another 28 % say Trump did something wrong but that it was not enough to warrant his removal , while 25 % say he did nothing wrong . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are far more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners to believe that Trump did something wrong related to Ukraine and that it warranted his removal . Eight-in-ten Democrats say this , versus just 7 % of Republicans . Around four-in-ten Republicans ( 41 % ) say Trump did something wrong but that it was not enough to warrant his removal , while 51 % say he did nothing wrong .
Around eight-in-ten registered voters in the U.S. ( 83 % ) said in the summer that it `` really mattered '' who won this year 's presidential election , the highest share in any presidential election year since at least 2000 . Two decades ago , by comparison , just half of registered voters said it `` really mattered '' who won the contest between George W. Bush and Al Gore.The election itself underscored voters ' engagement this year : President-elect Joe Biden received more than 81 million votes , while Donald Trump got more than 74 million – the highest and second-highest totals in American history .
However , districts ' willingness to split their tickets – choose one party 's presidential nominee and the other party 's candidate for representative – has been on a steep decline for more than two decades . In 2012 , only 26 House districts out of 435 ( 6 % ) split their votes , according to our analysis of district-level election results . Of these , 17 voted to re-elect President Obama but sent a GOP representative to Capitol Hill ; nine opted for Mitt Romney and also a Democratic representative . ( On an individual voter level , a Pew Research Center analysis in 2014 estimated that about eight-in-ten likely voters in areas with multiple major contests would vote a straight-party ticket that fall . Split-ticket voting also has declined at the state level . ) First , split-ticket districts were overwhelmingly Republican for the presidency but Democratic when it came to the House ( a combined 92.6 % of all split-ticket districts in the five election cycles between 1972 and 1988 ) . And second , tickets in Southern districts were far more likely to be split than those in any other region : Of all districts that split their presidential and House votes between 1972 and 1988 , 41.2 % were from Southern states even though the South accounted for just 31.5 % of all House seats . This was well above the shares in any of the other three Census-defined regions . In 1972 , two-thirds of all Southern districts split their presidential and House votes ; as recently as 1988 more than half still did .
The debate over health care reform dominated the public 's news interests last week , even as other stories – including the furor over new mammogram guidelines and Sarah Palin 's book tour – vied for the news media 's attention . Fully 41 % cite the health care debate as their most closely followed story of the week , far more than the percentage citing any other story . Nearly one-in-five ( 18 % ) name reports about swine flu as their top story , while somewhat fewer ( 11 % each ) cite the new mammogram guidelines and the debate over sending more U.S. forces to Afghanistan . Just 4 % say that President Obama 's trip to Asia was their top story and even fewer – 2 % of the public – cite news about Sarah Palin and her new book . The health care debate also was the week 's top story in terms of news coverage , accounting for 13 % of the newshole , according to a separate study by the Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . But while Palin 's book tour drew about as much coverage as the controversy over mammogram guidelines ( 8 % vs. 7 % ) , reports about the new guidelines attracted far more interest among the public .
There is widespread pessimism among the Argentine public about the nation 's direction . About eight-in-ten ( 82 % ) express dissatisfaction with the way things are going in Argentina today . Younger Argentines ( ages 18 to 29 ) are significantly more likely than those 50 and older ( 87 % vs. 73 % ) to say they 're dissatisfied with conditions in the country . Similarly , women are more likely than men to hold this view ( 86 % vs. 78 % ) .
A separate survey by Pew Research Center finds that about four-in-ten Americans ( 43 % ) think it would a good thing for the country if a Democratic woman was elected president ; 32 % say this would be neither a good thing nor a bad thing , and 24 % say it would be a bad thing for the country if a Democratic woman became president . When asked about the prospect of electing a Republican woman president , 32 % say this would be a good thing , while 44 % see it as neither good nor bad and 23 % say it would be a bad thing for the country . About seven-in-ten Democrats ( 69 % ) say a woman from their own party being elected president would be a good thing for the country . But when asked about the prospect of a Republican woman president , only 21 % of Democrats say this would be a good thing ; 44 % say it would be neither good nor bad and 35 % say it would be a bad thing . Among Republicans , 47 % say it would be a good thing to have a Republican woman as president , but a similar share ( 42 % ) see this as neither good nor bad . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say this would be a bad thing for the country . Republicans have far less positive views about the prospect of a Democratic woman being elected president : Just 10 % say this would be a good thing while half ( 52 % ) say it would be a bad thing for the country .
Since people may have access to high-speed connections at work or at home , the potential reach of broadband access extends beyond just the workplace or just the home front . At work , the broadband gap between rural and non-rural Americans is small and not statistically significant ; 72 % of rural workers who have online access at work have high-speed connections , compared with 75 % of urban and suburban online workers . With rural areas lagging in broadband use both at home and ( modestly ) at work , it is not surprising that the gaps persist when looking at access from home or work . Half of all adult Americans who live in non-rural areas can get online with a fast connection at home or work . By contrast , just more than one-third of rural Americans can do this .
Yet Republicans are far more likely than Democrats to view members of the opposing party as unpatriotic . A 63 % majority of Republicans say that , compared with other Americans , Democrats are `` more unpatriotic . '' Just 23 % of Democrats say the same about Republicans .
The public continues to be wary in its assessments of the health of the U.S. economy , despite recent improvement in some key economic indicators . Only about one-in-three Americans think the national economy is in good shape , and optimism about the future is markedly lower than it has been over the past three years . Closer to home , the percentage of the public rating its own financial situation positively has declined since the beginning of the year ­ from 51 % to 44 % .
Black adults are particularly likely to say slavery continues to have an impact : More than eight-in-ten say this is the case , including 59 % who say the legacy of slavery affects the situation of black people a great deal . By comparison , 26 % of whites , 29 % of Hispanics and 33 % of Asians say slavery affects the position of black people in American society today a great deal , though majorities of each group say it does so at least a fair amount .
Americans tend to prioritize individual liberty , while Europeans tend to value the role of the state to ensure no one in society is in need . Nearly six-in-ten in the U.S. ( 58 % ) believe allowing everyone to pursue their life 's goals without interference from the state is more important . Majorities in all European nations polled in 2011 said guaranteeing that nobody is in need is more important .
The Chinese public expresses a great deal of confidence about their nation 's place on the world stage . In particular , most Chinese also recognize the growing impact their economy has on others around the world , and they believe it is a positive impact . Only 3 % of Chinese think their economy is hurting other countries . This is very different from how Americans currently view the effects of their nation 's economy – 61 % say the U.S. is having a negative impact on other countries .
Three-quarters of Americans agree that it is sometimes necessary to use military force to maintain order in the world ; this view is shared by seven-in-ten in Britain and narrower majorities in France and Spain ( 62 % each ) . Germans are evenly divided , with half saying the use of force is sometimes necessary and half saying it is not .
Most Americans say they are more concerned about China 's economic strength than its military capabilities . Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) believe China 's economic power is the greater threat , a 6-percentage point increase from 2017 . The share of the public saying China 's military power is the bigger worry has declined 7 points over the past year . Concerns about China 's military had been on the rise in recent years , but the balance of opinion on this question now echoes that of 2012 , when Pew Research Center first asked this question . Younger Americans ( ages 18 to 29 ) are more likely than those ages 50 and older to identify China 's economic strength as the bigger threat of the two ( 65 % vs. 52 % ) .
But partisan divisions over President Bush 's performance , which diminished dramatically following the terrorist attacks , are once again as large as they were during his first days in office . While 88 % of Republicans are happy with the president 's job performance , 58 % of political independents and just 34 % of Democrats agree . This is comparable to an April 2001 Pew Research Center survey in which Bush won the approval of 87 % of Republicans , 56 % of independents , and 36 % of Democrats .
The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 4 - 9 among 1,502 adults , finds little optimism that the country 's political divisions will subside any time soon : 40 % expect the country to be about as politically divided in five years as it is today , while 31 % think it will be even more divided ; just 24 % expect divisions to lessen . When asked a more general question about the year ahead , public views are mixed : 49 % think 2017 will be a better year than 2016 , while 42 % think it will be worse . Expectations for 2017 are about as negative as for any year over the last decade . Compared with a year ago , optimism among Republicans has surged , while views among Democrats have plummeted . Fully 83 % of Republicans and Republican leaners expect 2017 to be better than 2016 ; a year ago , 44 % expected a better year in 2016 than 2015 . By contrast , just 24 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners expect a better year in 2017 ( 65 % thought 2016 would be better than 2015 ) .
Whites and blacks are split over the current state of race relations and what progress Obama has made on the issue . About six-in-ten blacks ( 61 % ) say race relations are generally bad , while about equal shares of whites say race relations are good as say they 're bad . Overall views on race relations are more positive now than they were a year ago , following the unrest in Baltimore over the death of Freddie Gray , a black man who died while in police custody . Even so , the public 's views of race relations are more negative now than they have been for much of the 2000s .
Americans ' views of national economic conditions continue to improve , with the share saying the economy is in good or excellent condition now at its highest point in nearly two decades . The overall rise in positive assessments seen over the last year is driven by the shifting views of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . Nearly three-quarters of Republicans ( 74 % ) now view the economy in positive terms . That is a marked improvement from last October ( 57 % ) . In December 2016 , shortly after the presidential election , just 14 % of Republicans rated the economy as excellent or good . By contrast , just 37 % of Democrats say the economy is in excellent or good shape . This is modestly higher than last fall ( when 30 % said this ) , but lower than the 46 % who said this in December 2016 .
Trade is without question a bigger piece of the U.S. economy than it was in the early 1990s , when the last major trade deal , the North American Free Trade Agreement , was negotiated . Last year , according to data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis , exports totaled $ 2.34 trillion , equal to 13.4 % of gross domestic product ( up from 9.7 % in 1992 ) . Imports were $ 2.88 trillion , or 16.5 % of GDP ( up from 10.2 % in 1992 ) ; the difference between the two is the trade deficit .
The average audience for the four newsmagazine shows aired by the networks – ABC 's 20/20 , CBS 's 60 Minutes and 48 Hours , and NBC 's Dateline – declined in 2018 , down 8 % from 2017 .
Domestically , despite international concerns leveled by various governments regarding Duterte 's controversial clashes with drug cartels and potential human rights violations , the Filipino leader and his policies are widely popular . Fully 86 % have a favorable view of Duterte himself , 78 % support his handling of the illegal-drugs issue and 62 % say that the Philippine government is making progress in its anti-drug campaign .1 Meanwhile , 78 % believe the current economic situation is good and 57 % are satisfied with the direction of the country , a 21-percentage-point increase from 2014 , the last time this question was asked in the Philippines . Since being elected in 2016 , Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte has waged a war on drugs that has garnered international condemnation , including accusations of crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court . Yet Pew Research Center 's 2017 survey finds that Duterte is well-liked domestically and his policies , including his approach to the war on drugs , are generally popular among Filipinos . A 57 % majority say they are satisfied with the way things are going in their country , up from 36 % three years ago . Moreover , 78 % believe that the economic situation in the Philippines is good , while only 20 % say the economy is in bad shape .
Opposition to Iran 's nuclear program among its neighbors generally tracks public fears of the threat an Iranian atomic bomb might pose to their country . A majority of Lebanese ( 57 % ) see a nuclear Iran as threatening . A majority of Tunisians ( 57 % ) and Pakistanis ( 57 % ) do not . The outlier is Jordan . A very strong Jordanian majority opposes Tehran 's nuclear ambitions , but a majority ( 55 % ) also say that such an Iranian force would pose no danger to their safety .
Even though many in these eight nations are dissatisfied with their economic situations , the mood in the Middle East and Europe is worse . Across the African nations surveyed , a median of 41 % believe the economy is in good shape , compared with 27 % in the Middle East and just 15 % in Europe .
The good news for advocates of globalization is that people across a diverse range of advanced , emerging and developing economies overwhelmingly ( a median of 81 % ) say that international trade and global business ties are good for their country . People also generally voice the opinion ( a median of 74 % ) that it is beneficial for their economy when foreign companies build new factories in their country . The survey included 48,643 respondents from March 17 to June 5 , 2014 . The bad news for these same apostles of globalization is that a significant share of people in many nations have reservations about the impact of deeper international economic integration . Just over half ( 54 % ) believe trade creates jobs . Only a plurality ( 45 % ) holds the view that it increases wages . And barely a quarter ( 26 % ) share the opinion that trade lowers prices , contrary to one of economists ' principal arguments for why nations should trade .
Republicans hold wide advantages in party identification among several groups of voters , including white men without a college degree , people living in rural communities in the South and those who frequently attend religious services . Democrats hold formidable advantages among a contrasting set of voters , such as black women , residents of urban communities in the Northeast and people with no religious affiliation .
A record seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) Hispanic high school graduates in the class of 2012 enrolled in college that fall , two percentage points higher than the rate ( 67 % ) among their white counterparts,1 according to a Pew Research Center analysis of new data from the U.S. Census Bureau . The positive trends in Hispanic educational indicators also extend to high school . The most recent available data show that in 2011 only 14 % of Hispanic 16- to 24-year-olds were high school dropouts , half the level in 2000 ( 28 % ) . Starting from a much lower base , the high school dropout rate among whites also declined during that period ( from 7 % in 2000 to 5 % in 2011 ) , but did not fall by as much .
Spanish is , by far , the most spoken non-English language in the U.S . The next most spoken non-English languages are Chinese ( with 2.8 million speakers ) , Hindi , Urdu or other Indic languages ( 2.2 million ) , French or French Creole ( 2.1 million ) , and Tagalog ( 1.7 million ) .
There is a wide gap between those who prioritize gun rights and gun control when it comes to political involvement . Nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) of those who say gun rights should be the priority have contributed money to an organization that takes a position on gun policy , compared with just 5 % of those who prioritize gun control . People who favor gun rights are also about twice as likely as gun control supporters to have contacted a public official about gun policy ( 15 % vs. 8 % ) . By contrast , comparable percentages of gun rights supporters ( 19 % ) and those who prioritize gun control ( 15 % ) say they have expressed their opinion about gun policy on social networks . And about one-in-ten in each group says they have signed a petition on gun policy ( 12 % of gun rights supporters , 10 % of gun control supporters ) .
But a closer look at the demographic patterns reveals some interesting insights about who is getting married . From 2011 to 2012 , the total number of newly married adults increased by 113,000 ( from 4.21 million to 4.32 million ) . Examining the newlyweds by education level , the number of newly married adults with at least a bachelor 's degree increased by 98,000 from 2011 to 2012 . Thus , almost the entire increase in new marriages ( 87 % ) from 2011 to 2012 is accounted for by the college-educated . The new marriage rate among college-educated adults increased from 55.3 newlyweds per thousand eligible adults in 2011 to 56.7 newly married in 2012 . In contrast , the new marriage rate among adults with some college education and adults with a high school diploma fell further from 2011 to 2012 .
In early March , 66 % of Democrats said that the country is headed in the right direction . That compared with 35 % of independents and just 11 % of Republicans . The partisan differences were much smaller in views of national satisfaction . Slightly more than a quarter of Democrats ( 27 % ) said they were satisfied with the way things are going , compared with 20 % of independents and 11 % of Republicans .
Among Republicans , conservatives are 20 points more likely than moderates and liberals to say Trump does not have a responsibility to reduce his tax returns ( 86 % vs. 66 % ) . There is a more modest ideological gap among Democrats .
In the first four months of Murdoch 's stewardship , the Journal ‘ s front page has clearly shifted focus , de-emphasizing business coverage that was the paper 's franchise , while placing much more emphasis on domestic politics and devoting more attention to international issues . But it is not , at least not yet , as broad as the New York Times on the same days . Under the Murdoch regime , the single biggest change in front-page coverage occurred with politics and the presidential campaign . From Dec. 13 , 2007 through March 13 , 2008 , coverage more than tripled , jumping to 18 % of the newshole compared with 5 % in the four months before the ownership change .
Two years ago today , the U.S . Citizenship and Immigration Services began accepting applications for the Obama administration 's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program . Known as DACA , the program provides temporary relief from deportation and a two-year work permit to qualifying young adults ages 15 to 30 who were brought to the U.S. illegally as children . Many of those approved are now eligible to re-applyto renew their work permit . The program does not provide a pathway to citizenship . The vast majority of young unauthorized immigrants who applied have received relief from deportation and a temporary work permit . Through March 31 , 2014 , 86 % of 643,000 applications accepted have been approved , according to government data . When the program started , the Pew Research Center estimated that up to 950,000 young unauthorized immigrant youths were immediately eligible to apply for the new program , but not all those eligible have applied for the program . Each application carries a $ 465 fee .
American opinions continue to differ considerably from those of Western Europeans when it comes to views of individualism and the role of the state . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) Americans believe it is more important for everyone to be free to pursue their life 's goals without interference from the state , while just 35 % say it is more important for the state to play an active role in society so as to guarantee that nobody is in need .
Roughly four-in-ten ( 44 % ) say not being far enough along in their job or career is at least a minor reason why they 're not engaged or married to their partner . Cohabiters who are not engaged but want to get married someday are more likely to cite their partner not being ready ( 26 % ) , rather than themselves ( 14 % ) , as a major reason they 're not engaged or married .
The increasing number of minorities in Congress is due largely to changes in the House , where today 95 of 435 members ( 22 % ) are nonwhite , according to CQ Roll Call . By comparison , there were 60 minorities in the House in 2001 . In the Senate , 10 of 100 members now belong to a racial or ethnic minority group , up from three in 2001 .
In fact , not only were more jobs wiped out in the Great Recession than any other post-World War II downturn — 8.7 million , or 6.3 % of the pre-recession peak payroll — but it 's taking longer to regain them than it did in the previous two post-recession recoveries combined . We pulled monthly figures on seasonally adjusted non-farm payroll jobs , which economists generally consider a more reliable measure than the unemployment rate , from the Bureau of Labor Statistics . Then we identified the employment peaks and troughs associated with each of the 11 postwar recessions , and counted how many months it took for payrolls to regain all the lost jobs . ( The job peaks and troughs do n't exactly coincide with the official starting and ending dates of recessions , as determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research , because the NBER looks at more economic indicators besides jobs when dating business cycles . ) The result : From the late 1940s until the early 1990s , the U.S. ec0nomy never took more than a year to regain all the jobs lost during downturns . The 1990 - 91 recession was fairly mild — only 1.6 million jobs lost , or 1.5 % of peak payroll employment — but it took 21 months to recover them all . That was the first , though not the last , `` jobless recovery '' : In the aftermath of the dot-com bubble , 2.7 million jobs evaporated ; it took 18 months after payrolls bottomed out for them all to come back .
In a week without major developments on the campaign trail , a quarter ( 25 % ) say they followed news about candidates for the 2012 presidential elections very closely ; 18 % say election news was their top story . Though partisans are about equally likely to say they followed this news very closely , Republicans are more likely to say this was the news they followed most closely : 27 % of Republicans say this , compared with 18 % of Democrats and 14 % of independents . For Republicans , the campaign was the week 's top story . About a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) say they very closely followed news about Congress passing legislation to extend payroll tax cuts and unemployment benefits that otherwise would have expired . This was the top story for 6 % . News about the legislation accounted for 4 % of coverage . Partisans are about equally likely to say they followed last week 's congressional action very closely . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they very closely followed news about international tensions over Iran 's nuclear program ; 8 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about Iran accounted for 5 % of coverage .
Seven-in-ten Indians are dissatisfied with the way things are going in India today , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . And , with the Indian parliamentary elections just weeks away , the Indian public , by a margin of more than three-to-one , would prefer the Hindu-nationalist opposition Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) to lead the next Indian government rather than the Indian National Congress ( INC ) , which heads the current left-of-center governing coalition .
Among Republicans and leaners under 40 , 68 % say nominating more racial and ethnic minorities would help and 64 % say the same about more women nominees . Far fewer Republicans 40 and older view these steps as helpful : 49 % say nominating more racial and ethnic minorities would help and 46 % say the same of nominating more women .
As growth of this group has stalled , there has been a recent sharp rise in the median length of time that unauthorized immigrants have lived in the U.S . In 2013 , according to a preliminary estimate , unauthorized immigrant adults had been in the U.S. for a median time of nearly 13 years—meaning that half had been in the country at least that long . A decade earlier , in 2003 , the median for adults was less than eight years .
Last year , the Obama administration created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program , which provides temporary relief from deportation to qualifying young adults ages 15 to 30 who were brought to the U.S. illegally as children . The program also provides a work permit to those who are awarded relief from deportation . The program does not provide a pathway to citizenship , but does offer temporary legal status – a feature likely to be a part of any comprehensive immigration bill .
Americans who consider themselves to be spiritual but not religious also tend to accept at least one New Age belief . Roughly three-quarters of U.S. adults in this category hold one or more New Age beliefs , including six-in-ten who believe spiritual energy can be located in physical things and 54 % who believe in psychics . And among those who say they are religious and spiritual , 65 % espouse at least one New Age belief .
1 A third ( 34 % ) of Americans liked or loved doing their taxes , according to the survey we conducted at this time last year . Of course , that left 56 % who did n't like the annual exercise including 26 % who hated doing their taxes . Among those who liked doing taxes , the largest share said it was to get a refund followed by those who said they did n't mind or prided themselves for being good at . The IRS says the average refund so far this year is $ 2,792 .
On the eve of the final mission of the U.S. space shuttle program , most Americans say the United States must be at the forefront of future space exploration . Fifty years after the first American manned space flight , nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say it is essential that the United States continue to be a world leader in space exploration ; about four-in-ten say this is not essential ( 38 % ) .
While most measures of voter engagement remain fairly high in 2012 , overall interest and commitment to voting is down slightly when compared with the highly-charged 2008 election campaign . The share of registered voters who score high ( three out of four ) on a scale of four questions about interest in the campaign and intention to vote has slipped from 86 % to 80 % overall . This slippage is particularly steep among voters under 30 ; just 61 % are highly engaged in the 2012 campaign , down from 75 % at this point four years ago . By contrast , fully 86 % of voters 65 and older are highly engaged , which is unchanged from four years ago . Interest also is down among voters 30-to-49 ( eight points ) and those 50-to-64 ( six points ) , although both groups remain more engaged in the election than those under 30 .
As the 2016 presidential campaign ramps up , Republicans and Democrats have different wish lists when it comes to what traits they want in a candidate . Military service far and away tops the list for Republicans , while a significant share of Democrats would like to see a woman at the top of the ticket , a choice that has much less appeal for the GOP , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted last month . Republican and Republican leaners respond strongly to military experience : 58 % say they would be more likely to support a candidate with military experience , the top positive trait for Republicans of the 16 tested in the survey . Military experience also tops the list for Democrats and Democratic leaners , but they are not as enthusiastic as Republicans : 31 % say they would be more likely to support a candidate who has served in the military , while 62 % say this would n't matter to them . While a positive for both Democrats and Republicans , military experience is not easy to find among the list of much-talked-about potential 2016 candidates . With Hillary Clinton looming large over the potential Democratic presidential field , 27 % of Democrats say they would be more likely to vote for a woman presidential candidate , the third most positive attribute for Democrats . A candidate being a woman ranks highly as a positive trait among just 11 % of Republicans .
In a week that saw passage of health care legislation by the Senate Finance Committee , news about health care reform remained front-and-center on the public 's news agenda , topping both public interest and news coverage . The latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted October 16 - 19 among 1,004 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , finds that public interest in the war in Afghanistan continues to be fairly modest . Only about one-in-ten ( 9 % ) cite the war as their top story for the week , which is less than the percentage ( 14 % ) that mentioned the story of a boy thought to be aboard a runaway balloon who was later found safe , and the proportion citing swine flu news ( 20 % ) . The health care debate was the top story – at 32 % – as has been the case in most recent weeks .
Meanwhile , public support for adding private accounts to Social Security , which declined over the winter , has largely stabilized over the past three months . Since February , there has consistently been a slim plurality ( currently 47 % ) in favor of the idea of allowing younger workers to invest a portion of their Social Security taxes in private retirement accounts , though nearly as many ( 40 % ) are opposed . Bush 's endorsement of this proposal is not mentioned in this survey question .
The Chinese public is increasingly concerned about the quality of the country 's air and water after a year in which China experienced numerous high-profile environmental problems .
There 's a persistent partisan gap in sympathies for Israel and the Palestinians . Americans continue to express more sympathy for Israel in the dispute than for the Palestinians ( 54 % vs. 19 % ) , though the share sympathizing more with the Palestinians has risen 5 points since July 2014 . Both Republicans and Democrats are more likely to sympathize with Israel than with the Palestinians , though that margin is far wider among Republicans ( 75 % vs. 7 % ) than among Democrats ( 43 % vs. 29 % ) . And within the Democratic Party , there are stark differences by ideology : A 53 % majority of conservative and moderate Democrats sympathize more with Israel , but liberal Democrats are statistically divided in their views . While a third of liberal Democrats ( 33 % ) sympathize more with Israel , 40 % express more sympathy for the Palestinians .
Still , a greater percentage ( 39 % ) said they followed news about the economy very closely than said the same about the midterm elections ( 29 % ) . With ongoing concerns about the strength of the economic recovery , this has been the case for much of 2010 .
Views of Congress have grown more positive among Democrats – and less positive among Republicans – since Democrats won control of the House of Representatives last November . Since March 2018 , the share of Democrats and Democratic leaners with a favorable opinion of Congress has risen 19 percentage points from 24 % to 43 % . The share of Republicans with a favorable view of Congress has declined 10 points since then ( 37 % to 27 % ) .
The Pew Research Center 's report earlier this month on partisan identification found that 51 % of Millennials ( 18 - 33 years old in 2014 ) identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party , while 35 % identify as Republicans or lean Republican . By contrast , 47 % of those in the Silent Generation ( ages 69 - 86 in 2014 ) say they are Republican or lean Republican ; 43 % affiliate with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic . The partisan leanings of Baby Boomers and Generation X fall in between ; both generations favor the Democratic Party , but to a lesser extent than Millennials . As the Pew Research Center has often noted , it is not always the case that younger generations are more Democratic . Two decades ago , the youngest adults – Generation X – were the most Republican age cohort on balance , while the oldest – the Greatest Generation– were the most Democratic . In 1994 , 47 % of Gen Xers ( then ages 18 - 29 ) identified with or leaned toward the Republican Party , while 42 % identified as Democrats or leaned Democratic . And members of the Greatest Generation ( then ages 67 - 81 ) — favored the Democratic Party over the GOP ( 49 % to 42 % ) .
Obama continued to overshadow John McCain , not only in terms of news coverage but also in public visibility . The Illinois senator was featured prominently in 82 % of all campaign stories , more than double the number of stories mentioning McCain ( 40 % ) . Consistent with the balance of coverage , the public reported hearing far more about Obama than about McCain in recent weeks . Three-quarters of Americans said that Obama was the candidate they had heard most about in the news . This compares with only 10 % who named McCain . Obama was far more visible than McCain among Republicans ( 69 % vs. 17 % ) as well as Democrats ( 81 % vs. 8 % ) .
After entering Europe , most new arrivals apply for asylum . Asylum seekers are given medicine , shelter and food by local and national governments while they wait for their applications to be processed . To date , more than 2 million first-time applications have been received by EU member countries , Norway and Switzerland since January 2015 , far more than any previous wave of asylum seekers since the years following World War II . The 2015 surge of asylum seekers continues to strain European governments . Since November 2015 , the number of pending applications has exceeded 1 million among EU countries , Norway and Switzerland , and could take another year to clear . Not all asylum seekers have their applications for refugee status approved . Between January 2015 and June 2016 , applications from about 500,000 of them were rejected . These asylum seekers can appeal the decision , request a temporary extension of their stay in Europe on humanitarian grounds or leave Europe . Rejected asylum applicants can also be ordered to leave the country or deported to either their country of citizenship or the first European country they entered .
The percentage of Americans who have listened to a podcast has also substantially increased over the last decade . As of 2019 , 51 % of Americans ages 12 or older have ever listened to a podcast , according to Edison Research and Triton Digital survey data , and 32 % have listened to a podcast in the past month , up from 26 % in 2018 and just 9 % in 2008 . Furthermore , 22 % of those 12 and older said they have listened to a podcast in the last week , up from 7 % when this was first measured in 2013 . ( The data in this chart , as well as in the subsequent chart about podcasts , is for all types of listening and do not break out news programs . )
Nearly half of the public ( 46 % ) say news organizations have given too much coverage to the sexual harassment allegations against Cain . Fewer ( 33 % ) say this story has received the right amount of attention and just 13 % say it has received too little . Perceptions of coverage of the Penn State scandal are more mixed : 41 % say the story received too much coverage , while 40 % say it received the right amount . Just 12 % say it received too little . By contrast , about half ( 51 % ) say the congressional `` super committee '' – now negotiating behind closed doors to find ways to significantly reduce government spending and federal deficit – has gotten too little attention . Though a plurality views coverage of anti-Wall Street protests around the country as about right ( 37 % ) , about a quarter ( 26 % ) say the protests are getting too little coverage . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say the protests have received too much coverage .
A few months later , a Pew Research survey found the percentage of Jordanian Muslims saying suicide attacks can often or sometimes be justified had fallen from 57 % to 29 % . Today , it stands at 15 % . Similarly , confidence in bin Laden plummeted from 61 % to 24 % after the bombings , and by the time of his death just 13 % of Jordanians had confidence in the terrorist leader .
Views of China 's economic growth are mixed across the Asia-Pacific region . There is little consensus among the seven countries surveyed there about whether China 's growing economy is more of a good thing or a bad thing for their country . Three say the former , two the latter and two are nearly evenly split . Australians are most positive about China 's economic growth ; by a three-to-one margin , more people say China 's economic growth is good for Australia than bad . In contrast , only 20 % of Indians see China 's economic rise as a good thing for their country . The Asia-Pacific region is also one of the regions where most people name the U.S. , not China , as the top global economic power .
As new conflicts emerge , the top origin countries of refugees can change suddenly . But with a growing number of conflicts in the Middle East associated with the Arab Spring , more refugees are fleeing their home countries in the Middle East and North Africa compared with a decade earlier . In 2002 , 16 % of refugees were born in the Middle East and North Africa , while that share rose to 22 % by 2012 . Despite this increase , most refugees are still from countries in the Asia-Pacific and sub-Saharan Africa regions .
President Obama visits Mexico on Wednesday for what has become known as the `` Three Amigos Summit '' with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto . It comes at a time when the U.S. public has a positive view of Canada , but more lukewarm feelings toward Mexico . Only 39 % of Americans expressed a favorable view of Mexico in a Pew Research Center survey conducted last October-November . This represents a substantial rise in unfavorable opinions of America 's southern neighbor since 2007 , when the balance of opinion toward Mexico was positive ( 47 % favorable , 37 % unfavorable ) . In addition , Democrats are more likely than Republicans to view Mexico favorably , with 44 % of Democrats holding a positive impression while just three-in-ten Republicans ( 30 % ) say the same .
Suburban counties not only had the most overall drug overdose deaths in 2016 , they also had the highest age-adjusted rate of deadly overdoses – a metric that controls for differences in population size and average age across the three community types . The age-adjusted rate of drug overdose deaths in suburban counties was 21.1 per 100,000 people in 2016 , compared with 18.7 per 100,000 in rural counties and 18.5 per 100,000 in urban counties .
Politicians have long had a negative image with the public . Two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) said in the December 2004 survey that elected officials in Washington lose touch with people pretty quickly , and 63 % felt that elected officials generally `` do n't care what people like me think . '' These numbers actually represent modest improvement since the mid-1990s . Reflecting their parties ' contrasting political fortunes over the past decade , Republicans have become much less critical of Washington politicians , while Democrats have become somewhat more negative . In July 1994 , 73 % of Republicans said that elected officials tend to lose touch quickly ; ten years later , 55 % felt this way . By comparison , the number of Democrats taking this position grew from 66 % in July 1994 to 72 % last year .
Most Americans say they heard at least a little about Obama 's speech at the Jan. 12 memorial service at the University of Arizona ( 75 % ) . Among that group , nearly seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) say the address was either excellent ( 36 % ) or good ( 33 % ) , while 21 % rate the speech as only fair ( 15 % ) or poor ( 6 % ) . More than eight-in-ten Democrats ( 83 % ) say the speech was excellent ( 55 % ) or good ( 28 % ) . Just 11 % say it was only fair and less than 1 % rate it as poor . Majorities of Republicans and independents who had heard about the speech also rated it positively . Among Republicans , 56 % say the speech was either excellent ( 18 % ) or good ( 37 % ) ; 23 % say it was only fair and 12 % rate it as poor . Two-third of independents ( 67 % ) give the speech a positive rating ( 31 % excellent , 35 % good ) . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) are more negative ( 13 % only fair , 7 % poor ) .
Even before being charged with corruption , Brazilian President Michel Temer was less popular than his predecessors . Temer , Brazil 's current leader , has been charged with corruption amid allegations he participated in bribery . But even before the scandal , when Brazilians were asked about their views of the country 's current and previous presidents , Temer 's favorability trailed that of his immediate predecessors , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March and April . In the spring survey , about one-in-five ( 21 % ) Brazilians had a positive view of Temer , including only 2 % who had a very favorable view of him . About a third ( 34 % ) of the public had a favorable view of Temer 's former boss , impeached President Dilma Rousseff . And more than four-in-ten ( 45 % ) had a positive opinion of former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva , who is also under investigation .
Two-thirds of Republican attenders say their house of worship is open to the public with changes as a result of the coronavirus outbreak , while 43 % of Democrats say this . Democratic congregants are more likely than Republicans to say that their houses of worship are closed altogether ( 42 % vs. 23 % ) . And small shares in both parties say that their houses of worship are currently open to the public and operating in the same way that they did before the outbreak ( 7 % of Republicans say this , as do 5 % of Democrats ) .
About half of the public ( 48 % ) says they followed news about the powerful tornadoes that struck Joplin , Mo. , more closely than any other news last week . None of the week 's other top stories comes close , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted May 26 - 29 among 1,000 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press .
Few Japanese trust U.S. President Donald Trump . Roughly a quarter ( 24 % ) express confidence in him to do the right thing in world affairs . Such faith is significantly below that in the Philippines ( 69 % ) , somewhat lower than in Australia ( 29 % ) , but higher than in South Korea ( 17 % ) . Japanese confidence in Trump is 54 points lower than that expressed in 2016 for his predecessor Barack Obama . By comparison , trust in the current U.S. chief executive is down 71 points in South Korea , 55 points in Australia and 25 points in the Philippines . Reflecting their declining opinion of the U.S. and their lack of confidence in the new U.S. president , more than twice as many Japanese worry that the alliance between the two countries will deteriorate as believe the relationship will improve now that Trump is president . About four-in-ten Japanese ( 41 % ) think relations will get worse . Just 17 % believe things will get better and 34 % expect them to stay the same . Nearly twice as many Japanese ages 18 to 29 ( 25 % ) as Japanese ages 50 and older ( 13 % ) expect things will get better . And men ( 22 % ) are more likely than women ( 12 % ) to expect an improvement .
While Iraq remains a deeply polarizing issue across party lines , there has been improvement in how both Democrats and Republicans view the war . At the lowest point in February , barely half of Republicans ( 51 % ) said things were going well . Today , 74 % of Republicans say the same . And while Democrats remain far more skeptical than Republicans , the proportion of Democrats expressing a positive view of the Iraq effort has doubled since February ( from 16 % to 33 % ) .
Amid these changes , Americans are divided on whether it is possible to cut regulations while still effectively protecting air and water quality , with 52 % saying it is possible and 48 % saying it is not . Some 74 % of Republicans and independents who lean Republican believe it is possible to cut regulations and protect the quality of air and water , compared with 35 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners who say the same .
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in August found that 46 % of U.S. adults say they have a family member or close friend who is addicted to drugs or has been in the past . Identical shares of men and women say this ( 46 % each ) , as do identical shares of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents when compared with Republicans and Republican leaners ( also 46 % each ) . There are no statistically significant differences between whites ( 46 % ) , Hispanics ( 50 % ) and blacks ( 52 % ) .
President Obama enters the seventh year of his presidency in a familiar position when compared with his recent predecessors . His 47 % job approval rating places him squarely between George W. Bush ( 33 % ) and Bill Clinton ( 63 % ) at similar points in their second terms . Obama 's rating is comparable to Ronald Reagan 's in January 1987 ( 49 % ) , when Reagan was embroiled in the Iran-Contra affair . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 7 - 11 among 1,504 adults , finds that Obama 's job approval has risen five points since December ( 42 % ) . The president 's job rating changed very little over the course of 2014 .
This relative decline is largely attributable to the fact that religious `` nones '' are , on average , older and have fewer children than people who are affiliated with a religion . In 2015 , for instance , the median age of people who belong to any of the world 's religions was 29 , compared with 36 among the unaffiliated . And between 2010 and 2015 , adherents of religions are estimated to have given birth to an average of 2.45 children per woman , compared with an average of 1.65 children among the unaffiliated . Between 2010 and 2015 , there were a larger estimated number of births than deaths among religious `` nones '' in all regions , led by the Asia-Pacific region , which is home to a majority of the global religiously unaffiliated population . But this will change in the coming years . For people with no religion in Asia , for instance , the number of deaths will begin to exceed the number of births to unaffiliated mothers by 2030 , a change driven by low fertility and a relatively old unaffiliated population in China , where over 60 % of the world 's unaffiliated population currently resides . By 2035 , unaffiliated deaths in Europe are expected to outnumber births there as well .
Just 1 % ( six members ) of the current 114th Congress immigrated into the U.S. at some point in their lives , compared with about 10 % ( nine of 95 ) who were born abroad in the first Congress of 1789 - 91 , which was a much smaller Congress , and 8 % ( 31 of 407 ) during the next peak , the 50th Congress of 1887 - 89 , amid the broader U.S. immigration wave from Europe .
Women have made gains in educational attainment , which has contributed to their progress in the workforce at large . Among adults ages 25 to 64 , women are now more likely than men to have a four-year college degree . In 2017 , 38 % of these women and 33 % of men had a bachelor 's degree .
While the campaign once again dominated national news coverage last week , the economy took center stage in terms of public interest . Three-in-ten Americans paid very close attention to news about the presidential campaign last week , however , only 11 % listed the campaign as the single news story they were following more closely than any other — putting it in fourth place behind the economy , the troubles facing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac , and the situation in Iraq . Fully 45 % of the public followed news about the economy very closely and 29 % listed this as their most closely followed story . News of the financial crisis facing mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the government 's efforts to shore up those institutions was followed very closely by 30 % of Americans . Another 33 % followed this story fairly closely and 15 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . Republicans and Democrats followed the mortgage story in roughly equal proportions , but Democrats paid considerably closer attention than Republicans to news about the general state of the economy . For its part , the national media devoted 9 % of its overall coverage to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and 9 % to the U.S. economy .
Most countries and territories allow voters abroad to cast ballots in some capacity . That 's the case in the U.S. and another 151 of the 216 countries and territories evaluated by the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance , at least for national legislative , European Parliament or presidential elections . Among those , many allow external voting for legislative elections ( 124 ) , presidential elections ( 88 ) or referenda ( 74 ) , and just 24 allow it for sub-national elections . Around the world , 55 countries and territories do not allow any voting from abroad . Many of these countries are located in Latin America , sub-Saharan Africa and the Asia-Pacific region .
Other than English , the language most commonly spoken by Americans is Spanish . ACS data show that 37.6 million Americans age five or older speak Spanish in their home . Other languages , including ones highlighted by the Coke commercial , have a much more limited presence . Chinese is spoken by 2.8 million Americans , Tagalog by 1.7 million Americans and Korean by 1.1 million Americans age five or older .
Since 1980 , the share of immigrants who are proficient in English ( those who speak only English at home or speak English at least `` very well '' ) has declined , though it has increased slightly in recent years . This decline has been driven entirely by those who speak only English at home , which fell from 30 % of immigrants ages 5 and older in 1980 to 17 % in 2018 . The share who speaks English `` very well , '' meanwhile , has increased slightly , from 27 % to 37 % over the same time period .
When it comes to politics , the public also is self-critical : Just 34 % say they have `` very great '' or a `` good '' deal of trust and confidence in the political wisdom of the American people . Fully 63 % have `` not very much '' confidence or `` no confidence at all . '' These views have changed dramatically since 2007 , when a majority ( 57 % ) had at least a good deal of trust and confidence in the American people 's political wisdom . The decline has come among both Democrats and Republicans : Just 37 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners have at least a good deal of confidence in the public 's political wisdom , as do 36 % of Republicans and Republican leaners , down from 57 % and 61 % , respectively , eight years ago .
Hispanics now make up one-fourth of all public school students—a new demographic milestone . According to the Census Bureau , one out of every four public school students nationwide in October 2012 was Hispanic . The Hispanic share varies across different school levels . For example , among nursery public school students , the Hispanic share stood at 29 % ; among public school kindergarten students , 27 % are Hispanic ; and among elementary school students , 25 % are Hispanic . Only among public high school students is the Hispanic share ( 23 % ) below one-quarter .
A majority of Xers also named Clinton as best ( 38 % ) or second-best ( 18 % ) , while 43 % cite Reagan ( 34 % as best , 9 % as second-best ) . Just 23 % of Xers say that Obama is the best or second best president of their lifetimes ; 18 % cite George H. W. Bush and 14 % cite George W. Bush .
Grandparents who live with their grandchildren are more racially and ethnically diverse than the U.S. population overall , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . Less than half ( 48 % ) of grandparents with grandchildren at home are white , while 75 % of Americans overall ages 50 and older are white . Meanwhile , Hispanics , blacks and Asians make up a larger share of grandparents with grandchildren at home than they do of the 50+ population overall .
The close ties between people in the U.S. and Mexico are reflected in the survey 's findings – 39 % of Mexicans have friends or relatives in the U.S. Nearly one-in-five ( 18 % ) Mexicans say they receive money from relatives living in another country , although this represents a slight decline from 2007 , when 23 % said they received money from outside .
Over the last decade , Indonesian opinions about the U.S. have fluctuated considerably . A 2002 poll by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project found that roughly six-in-ten Indonesians ( 61 % ) had a favorable view of the U.S. , while only 36 % expressed an unfavorable view . It was not until the election of Barack Obama , however , that positive ratings for the U.S. returned to their pre-Iraq war level . A Pew Research survey conducted in May-June of 2009 found a dramatic improvement in America 's overall image — the percentage of Indonesians with a favorable opinion jumped from 37 % in 2008 to 63 % in 2009 , while the percentage with an unfavorable view dropped from 53 % to 30 % .
For example , young Muslim women ( born between 1976 and 1985 ) in Saudi Arabia , which calls itself an Islamic state and enforces conservative gender laws , have an average of 11.5 years of schooling , compared with 11.8 years for the country 's young men and just two years of education for older Muslim women ( those born between 1935 and 1955 ) . These numbers indicate that Saudi Arabia has increased access to schooling for women and has come closer to closing the education gender gap . ( The study measured only the education of Saudi citizens and not trends among the large population of noncitizen migrant workers in Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries . ) By comparison , the average duration of schooling for young U.S. men and women – across religious groups – is around 13 years . By contrast , in Mali – also a predominantly Muslim country , but one that is economically poor – young Muslim women have an average of only 1.4 years of schooling , compared with 2.7 years for the country 's young men . And older Muslim women in Mali ( those born between 1935 and 1955 ) average half a year of schooling . These figures show that Mali has seen only modest gains in the education of Muslim women . The same pattern has unfolded in sub-Saharan Africa overall , where young Muslim women average 2.5 years of school , up from 0.8 years of school among the older generation .
Overall , Latino and Black adults are now less likely to say they are fearful about the state of the country since June . Among both groups , about half of adults ( 52 % of Latinos , 51 % of Blacks ) say they feel fearful , down from roughly two-thirds in June . Among White adults , 66 % say they are fearful , unchanged compared with June . A similar share of Asian adults ( 65 % ) in November say they are fearful about the state of the nation .
A majority of white mainline Protestants ( 60 % ) and black Protestants ( 64 % ) say abortion should be legal in all or most cases . By contrast , 77 % of white evangelical Protestants say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases . Among Catholics , more say abortion should be legal ( 56 % ) than illegal ( 42 % ) in all or most cases . Those who are not affiliated with a religion are among the most supportive of legal abortion : 83 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases . Across age groups , those under 50 are more supportive of legal abortion than are those 50 and older . For example , 70 % of those ages 18 to 29 say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , compared with 55 % of those ages 65 and older .
Examining the annual change on a quarterly basis suggests a change in the trend occurred in mid-2006 ( Figure 12 ) . In 2004 , apprehensions in every quarter were substantially higher than in the same quarter of 2003 , with increases ranging from 23,000 in the fourth quarter to 109,000 in the second quarter . During the first two quarters of 2005 , apprehensions were down somewhat compared to the same quarters of 2004 , but quarter-to-quarter increases were registered through the second half of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 . For four quarters in a row since the second quarter of 2006 , apprehensions have decreased on an annual basis . The sharpest drop occurred in the first quarter of 2007 , when there were 122,000 fewer apprehensions than in the first quarter of 2006 . Analyzing the rate of annual change on a quarterly basis paints a similar picture ( Figure 13 ) . In percentage terms , apprehensions grew solidly in every quarter of 2004 compared to the same quarters of 2003 , with increases averaging 25 % . The trend was slightly negative in the first ( -2 % ) and second ( -1 % ) quarters of 2005 before it picked up for the next three quarters , which averaged gains of 9 % . Since the second quarter of 2006 , apprehensions have been down by an average of 27 % in every quarter compared to the same quarter in the previous year .
The small share of Americans – 7 % – who say they would definitely or probably not quarantine were then asked about possible reasons why they may not act on this advice . Some 44 % of this group say a major reason they would be unlikely to quarantine is that they just do n't think it would be necessary , while 35 % say the same about not being able to miss work .
While many Americans get news from social media , few are heavily engaged with news . Only about a quarter ( 26 % ) of social media news consumers often click on links to news stories on social media . And only 16 % often `` like '' news stories . Even fewer say they often comment on ( 8 % ) , share ( 11 % ) or discuss ( 5 % ) news stories on social media .
Moreover , roughly three-in-four Nigerians , Kenyans and South Africans believe that young people today who want to live a good life should stay in their countries rather than move abroad .
Those most interested in technology stand out for citing science news ' connection with their jobs . About half ( 52 % ) of employed Americans who are most interested in technology said they follow science news because it is related to their work , at least 11 % higher than any other group .
For American Muslims , being highly religious does not necessarily translate into acceptance of traditional notions of Islam . While many U.S. Muslims say they attend mosque and pray regularly , sizable shares also say that there is more than one way to interpret their religion and that traditional understandings of Islam need to be reinterpreted to address the issues of today . By some conventional measures , U.S. Muslims are as religious as – or more religious than – many Americans who belong to other faith groups . Four-in-ten ( 43 % ) Muslim Americans say they attend mosque at least once a week , including 18 % who say they attend more than once a week , according to a 2017 Pew Research Center survey . An additional 32 % say they attend once or twice a month , or a few times a year . These attendance levels are comparable to those of U.S. Christians , 47 % of whom say they attend services weekly or more , and greater than the 14 % of American Jews who say the same . A majority also say that they pray at least some or all of the salah , or ritual prayers required of Muslims five times per day . Among all U.S. Muslims , fully 42 % say they pray all five salah daily , while 17 % pray at least some of the salah every day . A quarter say they pray less often , and just 15 % say they never pray .
Today , in many countries , ratings for President Trump look very similar to those for Bush at the end of his term . This pattern is especially clear in Western Europe . In the UK , France , Germany and Spain , the low levels of confidence in Trump are very similar to the poor ratings for Bush in 2008 . In addition to exploring global views of President Trump , this survey also examines attitudes toward three other major leaders on the international stage . The results demonstrate that Trump is not the only world leader in whom global publics lack confidence . Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin also get poor marks , though neither is rated as negatively as the U.S. president . Across the 37 nations surveyed , a median of 28 % voice confidence in Xi , while 27 % feel this way about Putin .
By comparison , assessments are less positive among Cubans and Puerto Ricans . Among Cubans , 38 % say the impact of unauthorized immigration is positive , but 28 % say the impact is negative and 27 % say there is no impact one way or the other . Among Puerto Ricans , roughly equal shares say the impact of unauthorized immigration on U.S. Hispanics is positive ( 34 % ) , negative ( 29 % ) or has no effect ( 29 % ) . Spanish-dominant Hispanics are positive about the impact of unauthorized immigrants on the Hispanic community with 55 % saying their impact is positive . By contrast , opinions are split among English-dominant Hispanics—31 % see a positive effect of unauthorized immigration , 30 % see a negative effect and 33 % say there is no impact one way or the other . Educational attainment is also linked to views of unauthorized immigration 's effect on Latinos already living in the U.S. Half ( 52 % ) of Latinos who have less than a high school diploma and half ( 48 % ) of Latinos who are high school graduates say the impact of unauthorized immigration on U.S. Latinos is positive . By contrast , among Latinos with a bachelor 's degree , views are not as positive . Just one-third ( 34 % ) say the effect of unauthorized immigration is positive , 33 % say it is negative and 27 % say there has been no effect .
Additionally , 32 % of internet users agree with the statement that `` online dating keeps people from settling down because they always have options for people to date . '' This is the first time we have asked this question .
At the beginning of September , over 1.8 million refugees were registered with the United Nations 's High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) . With about 200,000 additional refugees awaiting registration with UNHCR , the number of refugees is about two million . About half , or one million refugees , are children under 18 years of age . Equal numbers of men and women have left Syria .
In the last four national elections , generational differences have mattered more than they have in decades . According to the exit polls , younger people have voted substantially more Democratic than other age groups in each election since 2004 , while older voters have cast more ballots for Republican candidates in each election since 2006 . The latest national polls suggest this pattern may well continue in 2012 . Millennial generation voters are inclined to back Barack Obama for reelection by a wide margin in a matchup against Mitt Romney , the Republican candidate who has run the strongest against Obama in many polls . By contrast , Silent generation voters are solidly behind Romney .
This study also examines several other factors that might affect people 's level of engagement and comfort with the contact tracing process . First , it looks at Americans ' openness to answering phone calls from unknown numbers and finds some evidence that even starting the contact tracing process might not be easy in many cases . Just 19 % of Americans say they generally answer their cellphones when an unknown phone number calls . Some 67 % say they do n't answer but would check a voicemail if one is left . And 14 % say they generally do n't answer and would ignore a voicemail . At the same time , shares of Americans say people pretend to be someone else in order to steal other people 's personal information with some frequency . Some nine-in-ten Americans think it is often ( 49 % ) or sometimes ( 42 % ) the case that people do this .
Yet even as partisan divides in views of some of these institutions have widened in recent years , the public 's overall evaluations are little changed . Majorities of Americans say churches and religious organizations ( 59 % ) and colleges and universities ( 55 % ) have a positive effect . Nearly half ( 47 % ) say labor unions have a positive impact ; 32 % see their impact negatively . Views of the impact of banks and other financial institutions are more negative ( 46 % ) than positive ( 39 % ) . And by roughly two-to-one ( 63 % to 28 % ) , more Americans say that the national news media has a negative than positive effect on the way things are going in the country .
The word `` substantially '' was also removed from the following sentence : `` Links associated with Twitter itself are shared by suspected bot accounts about 50 % of the time – a substantially smaller share than the other primary categories of content analyzed . '' The 50 % figure is substantially smaller than only five of the six categories . This correction does not materially change the analysis of the report . In the context of these ongoing arguments over the role and nature of bots , Pew Research Center set out to better understand how many of the links being shared on Twitter – most of which refer to a site outside the platform itself – are being promoted by bots rather than humans . To do this , the Center used a list of 2,315 of the most popular websites1 and examined the roughly 1.2 million tweets ( sent by English language users ) that included links to those sites during a roughly six-week period in summer 2017 . The results illustrate the pervasive role that automated accounts play in disseminating links to a wide range of prominent websites on Twitter . These findings are based on an analysis of a random sample of about 1.2 million tweets from English language users containing links to popular websites over the time period of July 27 to Sept. 11 , 2017.4 To construct the list of popular sites used in this analysis , the Center identified nearly 3,000 of the most-shared websites during the first 18 days of the study period and coded them based on a variety of characteristics .5 After removing links that were dead , duplicated or directed to sites without sufficient information to classify their content , researchers arrived at a list of 2,315 websites .
Overall , Egyptians believe the U.S. exerts a limited influence on their country 's tumultuous politics . When asked whether the American response to Egypt 's political situation is having a positive or negative impact , 62 % say it is having neither .
As Latino attitudes toward the number of immigrants living in the U.S. have changed , an age gap in these views has emerged . In the 2018 survey , Latinos ages 18 to 29 were 13 percentage points less likely than those 30 and older to say there are too many immigrants in the U.S . In 2002 , by comparison , there was virtually no age gap .
The EPA encourages people to `` reduce , reuse and recycle , '' noting that doing so `` helps conserve energy and reduces pollution and greenhouse gas emissions from resource extraction , manufacturing , and disposal . '' But the agency 's own data indicates that the overall recovery rate ( from recycling , composting and other processes ) has nearly plateaued , following strong growth in the 1980s and 1990s and slower but steady growth through the 2000s . In 2012 , about 34.5 % of all municipal solid waste generated was recycled , composted or otherwise recovered . Nearly two-thirds of paper and paperboard , the single biggest category of municipal solid waste , was recovered in 2012 , as was nearly 58 % of yard trimmings , the third-biggest category . But less than 5 % of food waste – the second-biggest category , with more than 36 million tons generated annually – was composted or otherwise recovered . And only 8.8 % of plastic waste , nearly 32 million tons of which was generated in 2012 , was recycled or otherwise recovered .
The American public expressed strong news interest in the earthquake in China last week even as the news media remained heavily focused on the presidential campaign . In spite of modest coverage of both the earthquake in China and the cyclone that hit Burma , the public had a fairly good sense of the magnitude of both disasters . About one-in-five Americans ( 22 % ) say they followed news about the earthquake in China more closely than any other story last week , which is about the same percentage citing the presidential campaign as their top story ( 20 % ) . By contrast , news organizations devoted much more coverage to the campaign – 37 % of all news coverage – than to the China disaster ( 13 % ) . News about gas prices , which barely appeared on the news media 's radar , was the public 's top story . Roughly three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they followed reports about rising gas prices more closely than any other story last week .
The public holds very different views of three world leaders : Vladimir Putin , Benjamin Netanyahu and Angela Merkel . By 69 % to 19 % more hold an unfavorable than favorable view of Russian President Vladimir Putin ; just 13 % do not offer a rating of him . Views of Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are mixed : 34 % view him favorably , while about as many ( 32 % ) view him unfavorably and 33 % are unable to offer a rating . German Chancellor Angela Merkel is not well known to the public : 48 % do not offer a rating of her ; 29 % view her favorably , while 23 % view her unfavorably .
A similar 2012 survey by the Chicago Council on Global Affairs found considerably less support than Gallup for moral or humanitarian foreign-policy goals . Of 11 possible goals CCGA asked about , the two lowest-scoring ones were `` promoting and defending human rights in other countries '' and `` helping to bring a democratic form of government to other nations , '' with 28 % and 14 % , respectively , calling those very important . The top-rated goals in that survey ? Protecting the jobs of American workers ( 83 % saying that was very important ) and reducing U.S. dependence on foreign oil ( 77 % ) .
By contrast , Hispanics have consistently disapproved of the so-called `` show me your papers '' provision of Arizona 's immigration law , and have consistently shown strong support for prioritizing a path to citizenship for unauthorized immigrants over tighter border controls . In a mid-June survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , 58 % of American adults say they approve of the 2010 Arizona law , while 38 % say they disapprove . When asked about priorities for addressing illegal immigration , a plurality ( 42 % ) of American adults give equal priority to tighter restrictions and creating a path to citizenship . Meanwhile , about a quarter ( 28 % ) say tougher border security and stricter law enforcement alone should be the priority ; about the same percentage ( 27 % ) say developing a way for unauthorized immigrants to become citizens alone should be the priority . These views have changed little since 2010 . Hispanics take a sharply different view . Among them , the vast majority—75 % —disapprove of the Arizona law while 21 % say they approve , according to the Pew Research Center survey . This is relatively unchanged from 2010 , when a Pew Hispanic Center survey revealed that 79 % of Hispanics said they disapproved of the Arizona law .
The breadth of the demands made by Brazilian demonstrators is reflected in the latest Pew Research Center poll of Brazil , which finds that 55 % of Brazilians are dissatisfied with the way things are going in their country , even as 59 % give national economic conditions a positive rating and 74 % say their personal financial situation is good ( although at least 70 % see rising prices , lack of job opportunities , the gap between the rich and the poor , and public debt as very big problems in Brazil ) .
In 2012 , there were 4 million unauthorized immigrant adults living with their U.S.-born children . Among those , 3.7 million do not have protection from deportation under Obama 's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals ( DACA ) program or under the Temporary Protected Status ( TPS ) program . As the accompanying chart shows , an estimated 675,000 unauthorized immigrants without deportation protection have U.S.-born children ages 18 or older ; some of those parents also have younger children .5 The remainder , about 3 million , has only minor U.S.-born children .
More than a half dozen political parties are vying for seats in parliament , including some opposition parties that formally identify as religious or Islamic . In the survey of Muslims around the world , respondents were asked to compare Islamic political parties with other parties . A plurality of Pakistan 's Muslims say Islamic parties are about the same as other parties ( 39 % ) . Just 10 % say Islamic parties are worse , while 29 % see Islamic parties as better than other parties .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 10 - 15 among 1,503 adults , finds that 61 % of the public thinks this year will be better than last year ; a year ago , 49 % said 2017 would be better than 2016 . Optimism among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents remains very high ( 88 % expect this year will be better than last ) and has increased substantially among Democrats and Democratic leaners ( from just 24 % last year to 42 % today ) .
Job approval ratings for both Republican and Democratic leaders in Congress are down slightly from mid-summer . Though Republicans may be poised for major gains in the House and Senate in the midterm elections , just 24 % of the public approves of the job being done by the party 's leaders in Congress . That is down from 33 % in July , and equals a low measured at about the same time last year . Disapproval stands at 60 % , matching the number from one year ago . Shortly after Barack Obama took office in 2009 , approval of Republican leaders stood at 34 % . Job performance ratings for Democratic leaders also have slipped since the start of the Obama administration ( from 48 % approval in February 2009 to 30 % currently ) . In July , that rating stood at 35 % . Still , going into the campaign 's final weeks Democrats ' approval ratings are modestly higher than the ratings for Republican leaders .
Despite growing confidence and a larger economic footprint , federal government data shows a mixed economic picture for the Hispanic community recently . For example , the group 's unemployment rate has improved since the Great Recession ( just as it has for all Americans ) , falling from a high of 12.8 % in the first quarter of 2010 to 6.4 % in the last quarter of 2015 ( and 5.6 % in the first quarter of 2016 ) . 3 Still , it remains above its low of 5 % in the fourth quarter of 2006 and is higher than that for non-Hispanic workers in the fourth quarter of 2015 .
This survey finds that this is indeed the case . Examining the group of individuals asked about their comfort or likely engagement with all three steps , we find that fully seven-in-ten of those who are very confident that public health organizations will protect their personal records from hackers or unauthorized users also say that they would be comfortable or likely to engage with all three steps of the process . That compares with smaller shares of those who express less confidence ( 56 % of those who are somewhat confident , 36 % of those who are not too confident and 21 % of those who are not at all confident ) .
Overall , medians of roughly seven-in-ten across the 14 economically advanced countries surveyed say that global climate change and the spread of infectious diseases are both major threats . Medians of six-in-ten or more cite security concerns – such as terrorism , cyberattacks from other countries and the spread of nuclear weapons – as major threats .
Americans continue to be very interested in news about health care reform and the economy , and far less interested in overseas news . About four-in-ten followed the economy ( 41 % ) and health care reform ( 39 % ) very closely . By contrast , just 19 % tracked news about the situation in Iraq very closely . Far fewer followed President Obama 's trip to Mexico or Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 's trip to Africa ( 9 % each ) , and just 7 % followed news about mudslides and flooding in Taiwan caused by a typhoon .
In the next half century or so , Christianity 's long reign as the world 's largest religion may come to an end , according to a just-released report that builds on Pew Research Center 's original population growth projections for religious groups . Indeed , Muslims will grow more than twice as fast as the overall world population between 2015 and 2060 and , in the second half of this century , will likely surpass Christians as the world 's largest religious group . While the world 's population is projected to grow 32 % in the coming decades , the number of Muslims is expected to increase by 70 % – from 1.8 billion in 2015 to nearly 3 billion in 2060 . In 2015 , Muslims made up 24.1 % of the global population . Forty-five years later , they are expected to make up more than three-in-ten of the world 's people ( 31.1 % ) .
When queried about their views related to specific aspects of each group 's mission , the public gives relatively good marks to all of these actors , with military leaders ranking the highest and members of Congress the lowest . For instance , 90 % of adults believe military leaders do a good job preparing military personnel to protect the country `` all or most of the time '' or `` some of the time , '' 83 % think technology company leaders build products and services that enhance lives , and 63 % think local elected officials do a good job promoting laws that serve the public .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Nov. 6 - 9 among 1,353 adults , finds divided opinions over who should take the lead in solving the nation 's problems – 41 % say Republican congressional leaders , while 40 % say Barack Obama . While victorious Republicans do not engender a great deal of public confidence , neither does President Obama . His overall job rating is virtually unchanged since just prior to the election : 43 % approve of his job performance while 52 % disapprove . Obama 's job rating is higher than Bush 's was following the 2006 midterm election ( 43 % vs. 32 % ) , but there is as much skepticism about Obama 's ability to get things done over the remainder of his term as there was about Bush 's in 2006 . Just 6 % think Obama will accomplish a great deal of what he would like to do in the remaining two years of his presidency , while 33 % say he will accomplish some of it . Most ( 59 % ) say he will be able to accomplish not much or nothing of what he wants to get done . After the 2006 midterm election , 57 % thought Bush would get little or nothing done .
Among adults ages 25 and older , three-in-ten Christians in sub-Saharan Africa have not completed even a year of primary schooling ( 30 % ) . But among Muslims in the region , fully 65 % have no formal education – a 35-percentage-point difference with Christians , a new Pew Research Center analysis has found .
But the ranks of Millennial and Generation X eligible voters have been growing , thanks to the aging-in of Millennials and naturalizations among foreign-born adults . These generations matched Boomers and previous generations as a share of eligible voters in 2012 and are now estimated to outnumber them . As of July , an estimated 126 million Millennial and Gen X adults were eligible to vote ( 56 % of eligible voters ) , compared with only 98 million Boomers and other adults from prior generations , or 44 % of the voting-eligible population .
Nearly 1 in 100 people worldwide are now displaced from their homes , the highest share of the world 's population that has been forcibly displaced since the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees began collecting data on displaced persons in 1951 . Displacement levels are higher in some regions of the world than others . For example , more than one-in-twenty people living in the Middle East ( 5.6 % ) are displaced . Meanwhile , about one-in-sixty people living in continental Africa ( 1.6 % ) are displaced ( not including Egypt , which is considered part of the Middle East ) . In Europe , 0.7 % of the population is displaced , similar to levels following the collapse of Eastern Bloc countries in the early 1990s .
The public divided its attention last week between the hurricane and the presidential campaign . Interest in the campaign remained high as 40 % followed campaign news very closely and 32 % listed this as their most closely followed story . For its part , the national news media continued to focus heavily on the presidential race – devoting 39 % of the overall newshole to campaign news . Coverage of Hurricane Ike accounted for 14 % of the newshole . News that the federal government was taking control of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac , last week 's biggest financial story , drew the very close attention of 28 % of the public . Some 6 % listed this as their most closely followed news story , and the media devoted 6 % of its overall coverage to the story .
Several factors help explain people 's views about emerging technologies and their potential use to augment human abilities . Opinions about implanting devices often hinge on whether the effects would be permanent and irreversible . Asked specifically about the possibility that the effects of an implanted brain chip would be permanent , about half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) say this would make the idea less acceptable to them .
A majority of Americans have moved past Japan 's actions during WWII . More than a third say that Japan has apologized sufficiently for WWII and about a quarter hold the view that no apology is now necessary . Just 29 % voice the opinion that Japan has not apologized sufficiently for its actions during the war . Again , it is younger Americans ( 73 % ) who are most likely to put Japan 's role in WWII behind them , while older Americans ( 50 % ) are less convinced .
In many of the countries where there are measurements of ideology on a left-right scale , those on the left tend to be more accepting of homosexuality than those on the ideological right . And in many cases the differences are quite large . In a similar vein , those who support right-wing populist parties in Europe , many of which are seen by LGBT groups as a threat to their rights , are less supportive of homosexuality in society . In Spain , people with a favorable opinion of the Vox party , which recently has begun to oppose some gay rights , are much less likely to say that homosexuality is acceptable than those who do not support the party . And in Poland , supporters of the governing PiS ( Law and Justice ) , which has explicitly targeted gay rights as anathema to traditional Polish values , are 23 percentage points less likely to say that homosexuality should be accepted by society than those who do not support the governing party .
Even as the internet has embedded itself in numerous aspects of American life , many of today 's workers make only marginal use of the internet for accomplishing work-related tasks . Indeed , some 17 % of workers report that they `` hardly ever '' use the internet on a typical day for work-related tasks , while 25 % report that they `` never '' use the internet for this reason .
The public has grown more supportive of the U.S. fight against ISIS , as about twice as many approve ( 63 % ) as disapprove ( 30 % ) of the military campaign against the Islamic militant group in Iraq and Syria . Last October , 57 % approved and 33 % disapproved . The possibility of sending U.S. ground troops to the region is more divisive , although the idea draws more support than it did four months ago . Currently , about as many favor ( 47 % ) as oppose ( 49 % ) sending U.S. ground troops to fight Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria ; in October , 39 % favored the idea and 55 % opposed it .
The challenges of polling Asian Americans are likely to persist in the foreseeable future , though some trends may make this task easier . Among U.S. adults , Asians are projected to be the third-fastest-growing racial/ethnic group behind Hispanics and multiracial adults . By 2030 , Asians will make up 6.9 % of U.S. adults , and by 2060 , they will make up 9.4 % of the adult population .
There is some degree of optimism about the economy in the next year : 27 % expect conditions to get better , and 50 % say they will stay the same , while 21 % say the economy will be worse . This sentiment has remained little changed throughout the year .
About a quarter ( 24 % ) said the congressional election was the news they most closely followed last week ; 18 % say they followed news about the economy more closely than any other news story .
Economic inequality . Majorities of the supporters of leading Democratic candidates view economic inequality as a very big national problem ; even larger shares say that business corporations in the U.S. have too much power . Yet Democrats disagree sharply about the impact of billionaires on the country . A majority of Sanders ' supporters ( 55 % ) and 49 % of Warren supporters say the fact that there are some people with personal fortunes of a billion dollars or more is a bad thing . By contrast , the predominant view among Bloomberg supporters ( 69 % ) , as well as Biden ( 67 % ) and Buttigieg supporters ( 61 % ) , is that this is neither good nor bad .
The proportion of voters identifying with the Democratic Party has grown significantly since the 2004 election , and the shift has been particularly dramatic among younger voters . Fully 61 % of voters ages 18 to 29 identify or lean Democratic and a comparable percentage supports Barack Obama . But Democratic gains in party affiliation among older voters since 2004 have been much more modest . Moreover , support for Obama among voters ages 50 and older is slightly lower than the share of this cohort that identifies with the Democratic Party . In Pew surveys conducted since August of this year , 51 % of all voters say they think of themselves as Democrats or lean toward the Democratic Party , up five points from 46 % during the same period in 2004 . Meanwhile , the number identifying with or leaning toward the Republican Party has fallen from 45 % to 41 % . In this cycle , the Democratic Party enjoys a 10-point advantage in party identification , compared with a one-point edge in the fall of 2004 .
Some 15 % of online adults1 use Twitter as of February 2012 , and 8 % do so on a typical day . Although overall Twitter usage has nearly doubled since the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project first asked a stand-alone Twitter question in November 2010 , the 15 % of online adults who use Twitter as of early 2012 is similar to the 13 % of such adults who did so in May 2011 . At the same time , the proportion of online adults who use Twitter on a typical day has doubled since May 2011 and has quadrupled since late 2010—at that point just 2 % of online adults used Twitter on a typical day .2 The rise of smartphones might account for some of the uptick in usage because smartphone users are particularly likely to be using Twitter .
However , no such age differential appears on the question of whether Muslims in France want either to be distinct from the larger culture or to adopt its customs . Nearly eight-in-ten French Muslims ( 78 % ) say they want to adopt French customs . Those under age 35 are equally as likely to say this as are their elders . This high preference for assimilation compares with that expressed by 53 % of Muslims in Spain , 41 % in Britain and 30 % in Germany .
It 's not a new problem : Puerto Rico 's population began declining in 2006 and has continued every year through 2013 , while the population of Puerto Ricans on the U.S. mainland has grown , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data .
Globally , a median of 30 % think the Russian government respects the personal freedom of its people . In North America , people in both the U.S. ( 80 % ) and Canada ( 73 % ) feel strongly that the Russian government does not respect civil liberties . In Europe , roughly eight-in-ten feel the same way in Sweden , the Netherlands , France , Poland and Germany . Greeks are the most likely to say Russia protects individual freedoms ( 43 % ) . Contrasting views on Russia 's respect for personal freedoms are found in both Asia and the Middle East . Majorities in Australia ( 75 % ) , Japan ( 61 % ) and South Korea ( 56 % ) doubt the Russian government on this score , compared with most Vietnamese ( 85 % ) and Filipinos ( 59 % ) who think Russia is protecting civil liberties at home .
Bucking a long-range trend of declining viewership , the audience for local TV news grew in all three major time slots in 2013 . Viewership climbed 6 % in the morning ( 5 to 7 a.m. ) and 3 % in the early evening ( 5 to 7 p.m. ) newscasts , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis . The audience barely edged up—by .1 % —in the late night slot ( 11 p.m. ) , a newscast that had suffered the biggest decreases in recent years .
More broadly , many of Pakistan 's Muslims think that religious leaders should have a role in politics . About half say that religious leaders should have either `` some influence '' ( 27 % ) or a `` large influence '' ( 27 % ) in political matters , while about a quarter say religious leaders should have `` not too much influence '' ( 12 % ) or `` no influence at all '' ( 14 % ) .
Most of these middle-class communities are located in the Midwest or the Northeast . In many of these areas , Democrats experienced double-digit drops in support , compared with a 5-percentage-point drop nationally . For example , in Johnstown , Pennsylvania , Obama won with 50 % of the vote in 2008 ; in 2016 that share dropped to 30 % for Clinton . In heavily middle-class Wausau , Wisconsin , a similar pattern also emerges : 54 % voted for Obama in 2008 versus 38 % for Clinton in 2016 . In communities with somewhat smaller middle-class shares , Democrats experienced similar losses . Of the 115 such metropolitan areas in which 50 % to 55 % of the adult population lives in middle-income households , 59 voted Democratic in 2008 . But 16 of those 59 areas flipped Republican in 2016 .
As U.S. college graduates earn their bachelor 's degrees and enter the job market this month , data from the Census Bureau show that the share of college-educated young adults in today 's workforce is higher than ever before . Four-in-ten Millennial workers ages 25 to 29 had at least a bachelor 's degree in 2016 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Current Population Survey data . That compares with 32 % of Generation X workers and smaller shares of the Baby Boom and Silent generations when they were in the same age range .
Respondents who fixed their broken technology themselves were also significantly less likely to report being confused than those who found other solutions or were unable to fix their devices . Some 29 % of fix-it-yourselfers reported being confused , compared with 49 % of those who consulted friends and family , 42 % of those who contacted user support and 46 % of those who could not fix the problem .
In Germany , partisan gaps also emerge . Supporters of the CDU/CSU are on balance in favor of defense spending increases . However , supporters of the Greens express more skepticism , with only 28 % saying they want to raise defense spending . Members of the SPD fall in the middle , with 41 % saying Germany should increase defense spending .
As the cell-only population has grown , telephone surveys by Pew and other organizations that rely on landline samples have experienced a sharp decline in the percentage of younger respondents interviewed in their samples . In Pew Research Center surveys over the past five years , the average percentage of those ages 18 - 34 in unweighted samples declined from 31 % in 2000 to 20 % through March 2006 ( the population parameter was essentially unchanged through this period ) . This decline is consistent with the fact that the cell-only population is heavily tilted toward young people .
The digital video advertising market is relatively small , but it is growing rapidly . According to eMarketer , digital video advertising in 2013 accounted for about 10 % of the overall digital advertising market . But digital video ad revenue reached $ 4.15 billion in 2013 , which represents a 44 % increase from 2012 and almost a tripling of the revenue from 2010 . YouTube is estimated to account for 20.5 % of that that $ 4.15 billion in digital video advertising , and eMarketer estimates that its share will continue to grow , leaving fewer ad dollars for news organizations .
While people are concerned about the current bilateral economic relationship and increasingly see China as a potential adversary , they do not necessarily think China 's growing economy is bad for the United States . More Americans say China 's growing economy is good for the U.S. than that it is bad ( 50 % vs. 41 % , respectively ) . But , when it comes to China 's increasing military strength , opinion is more uniformly critical : 81 % of Americans think China 's growing military power is bad for the U.S .
However , the harshest assessments of Obama are found in an increasingly anti-American Russia . Only 11 % of Russians express confidence in the U.S. president . Obama has never been very popular in Russia , but 29 % did voice confidence in him two years ago , before the outbreak of violence in Ukraine . Nine-in-ten Russians disapprove of how Obama is handling the Ukraine crisis . The percentage of Russians with a favorable view of the U.S. has also declined sharply over the past two years , dropping from 51 % in 2013 to 15 % this spring .
Half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) who say they attend religious services at least once a month report drinking alcohol in the past 30 days , according to the survey . That compares with roughly six-in-ten ( 62 % ) among people who attend worship services less often or not at all . Similarly , only 13 % of monthly attenders engaged in recent binge drinking – defined as four or more drinks on a single occasion for women and five or more for men – compared with 21 % of less frequent attenders . Among U.S. Christians , for example , Catholics are more likely than Protestants to say they 've consumed alcohol in the past 30 days ( 60 % vs. 51 % ) . Adults who do n't belong to any religion , meanwhile , are more likely ( 24 % ) than both Catholics ( 17 % ) and Protestants ( 15 % ) to have engaged in binge drinking in the past month . ( The survey did not include enough Mormon or Muslim respondents to analyze separately , but both of these religious groups teach their followers to abstain from alcohol . ) Rates of drinking also vary by Protestant subgroup . For instance , two-thirds of white mainline Protestants ( 66 % ) say they 've had alcohol in the past month , compared with roughly half of black Protestants ( 48 % ) and white evangelical Protestants ( 45 % ) . White mainline Protestants ( 21 % ) also are more likely than these two latter groups to binge drink ( 12 % for each ) .
But even as MEPs have gained in power , EU citizens seem to have grown less interested in choosing them . In the first European Parliament elections in 1979 , 62 % of registered voters in the nine participating countries voted . Overall turnout has fallen in every election since : In 2014 , just 43 % of the 396.1 million registered voters cast ballots . In most EU countries , turnout in European Parliament elections typically lags well behind that in national elections .
An estimated 2.3 million Hispanics of Cuban origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Cubans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Cuban origin ; this includes immigrants from Cuba and those who trace their family ancestry to Cuba . Cubans are the third-largest population ( tied with Salvadorans ) of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 4 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Cuban-origin population has increased 84 % , growing from 1.2 million to 2.3 million over the period . At the same time , the Cuban foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 50 % , from 853,000 in 2000 to 1.3 million in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
At the same time , there has not been a corresponding increase in the percentage of parents who think the internet has been a bad thing for their children . Instead , more parents are neutral about whether their children have been positively affected by the internet , saying the internet has not had an effect on their child one way or another .
Even at various points when Obama was in office , majorities of Democrats viewed the U.S. as less respected internationally ; 58 % said this last year . But now , 87 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say the U.S. is less respected than in the past , with 70 % saying this is a major problem .
Overall , about six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 62 % ) say it 's very or somewhat acceptable for professional athletes to speak out publicly about political issues , while 35 % say this is not too or not at all acceptable . But these views differ by age , race and ethnicity – and especially political affiliation . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of adults ages 18 to 29 say it is very or somewhat acceptable for professional athletes to speak out publicly about politics . By comparison , 67 % of adults ages 30 to 49 , 55 % of those ages 50 to 64 and half of those 65 and older say this .
Older Americans are also more likely to have had personal contact with a local journalist : A quarter of U.S. adults ages 65 and over have done so , compared with 17 % of those ages 18 to 29 . ( This may not come as a surprise : Since the question asked whether Americans have `` ever '' spoken to a local journalist , older adults have had more time – and a greater chance – to interact with a local reporter . )
And while China 's economy has grown at a much faster rate than most countries since the onset of the global economic downturn , concerns about economic inequality have also increased . About half now say the gap between rich and poor is a very big problem , and roughly eight-in-ten agree with the view that in China the `` rich just get richer while the poor get poorer . ''
Both Republicans and Democrats are about as likely to say that talking about politics with people whom they disagree with is `` stressful and frustrating '' as say such conversations are `` interesting and informative . '' And majorities in both parties ( 65 % of Republicans , 63 % of Democrats ) say that when they talk to people on the other side , they usually end up finding they have less in common politically than they thought .
Nearly two-thirds of adults say that when it comes to economic and trade policy toward China , it is more important to build a stronger relationship with China on economic issues ( 62 % ) than to get tougher with China on economic issues ( 35 % ) . This is the highest share saying this since the question was first asked in March 2011 . As in the past , Republicans are more likely to prioritize getting tougher on China over building a stronger relationship . Today , 54 % say it 's more important to get tougher with China on economic issues , while 44 % say it is more important to build a stronger relationship with China . Over the past several years , Democrats have grown less likely to say it is more important to get tougher on China on economic issues . Just 19 % say this today , down from 32 % in 2011 .
Many Catholics believe the church will change its rules on who can receive Communion . Indeed , 54 % of Catholics say they expect the church to allow divorced Catholics to receive Communion in the next 35 years or so . A similar share also says cohabiting couples will be permitted to receive Communion in the next 35 years ( 56 % ) .
When it comes to Obama 's long-term legacy , the public offers a mixed assessment . About as many say they think he will be a successful ( 37 % ) as unsuccessful ( 34 % ) president in the long run , while 26 % say it is too early to tell .
A number of new commercial online services have emerged in recent years , each promising to reshape some aspect of the way Americans go about their lives . Some of these services offer on-demand access to goods or services with the click of a mouse or swipe of a smartphone app . Others promote the commercialized sharing of products or expertise , while still others seek to connect communities of interest and solve problems using open , collaborative platforms . These services have sparked a wide-ranging cultural and political debate on issues such as how they should be regulated , their impact on the changing nature of jobs and their overall influence on users ' day-to-day lives . A national Pew Research Center survey of 4,787 American adults – its first-ever comprehensive study of the scope and impact of the shared , collaborative and on-demand economy – finds that usage of these platforms varies widely across the population . In total , 72 % of American adults have used at least one of 11 different shared and on-demand services . And some incorporate a relatively wide variety of these services into their daily lives : Around one-in-five Americans have used four or more of these services , and 7 % have used six or more . At the same time , around one-quarter of Americans ( 28 % ) say they have not used any major shared or on-demand platforms , and many are wholly unfamiliar with the tools and vocabulary of the new digital economy . For instance , 15 % of Americans have used ride-hailing apps like Uber or Lyft , but twice as many have never heard of these apps before . Similarly , 11 % of Americans have used home-sharing platforms like Airbnb or VRBO , but roughly half have never heard of home-sharing sites . In addition :
Though the nation is officially four years into economic recovery , a new Pew Research Center analysis of recently released Census data suggests that most Millennials ( adults ages 18 to 32 ) are still not setting out on their own . As of March 2013 , only about one-in-three Millennials ( 34 % ) headed up their own household . This rate is unchanged from March 2012 and even lower than the level observed in the depths of the Great Recession ( in 2009 , 35 % of 18- to 32-year-olds headed their own households ) . The absence of any increase in household formation among Millennials is significant because it contributes to lackluster apartment and housing demand as well as the demand for household furnishings that goes along with independent living . In 2013 , 34 % of Millennials lived in their parents ' home , a decline from the 35 % of 18- to 32-year-olds living at home in 2012 . This marginal decline in living at home is largely a result of the way the Census data source handles young college students . In the Current Population Survey , unmarried 18- to 24-year-olds living in college dormitories are categorized as if they reside in their parent 's home . As the Census Bureau reported , college enrollment among 18- to 24-year-olds has declined from its peak in 2011 , resulting in fewer Millennials living in college dormitories and being counted as living at home . Similarly , when we look at older Millennials – those ages 25 to 32 – we also see little change in the share who are living at home . In 2013 , 15 % of Millennials in this older age segment were living in their parents ' home , the same rate observed in this age group in 2012 .
The share of countries with `` high '' or `` very high '' levels of social hostilities involving religion remained stable at 27 % . Countries in these two categories scored at least a 3.6 on the Social Hostilities Index , a 10-point scale based on 13 measures of social hostilities involving religion , including tensions between religious groups and religion-related terrorism . Although the share of countries in these categories did not change since last year , it was higher than in 2007 , when this study began tracking social hostilities . In addition , several countries joined these top two categories of social hostilities in 2016 . Bangladesh experienced an increase in assaults and killings of members of religious groups by social groups or individuals – including multiple instances where people who had expressed atheist views or were accused of offending Islam on the internet were killed or threatened .
A majority of Americans who are focused on living in ways that protect the environment say it bothers them `` a lot '' when they see other people leave lights and electronic devices on ( 62 % ) , or throw away things that could be recycled ( 61 % ) . And , sizeable minorities of environmentally conscious Americans are bothered a lot by people incorrectly putting trash in recycling bins ( 42 % ) or people driving places that are close enough to walk ( 34 % ) . The least irksome behavior is drinking from a disposable water bottle ; 23 % of environmentally conscious Americans say this bothers them a lot , compared with 12 % among those who are less focused on everyday environmentalism .
There is widespread pessimism in rich countries , with many saying that today 's young people will do worse economically than the generation that came before . Across the 10 economically advanced nations surveyed , a median of 65 % believe that when children in their country grow up , they will be financially worse off than their parents . In the U.S. , 65 % say American children will be worse off , while just 30 % think they will do better financially than their parents . A major reason why emerging and developing nations are more optimistic is that their economies have performed better in recent years . Overall , there is a strong relationship between economic growth and optimism for the next generation . People in countries that have had strong growth since 2008 – such as China , Vietnam and Ghana – are much more likely to say today 's children will be better off than their parents . In nations hit hard by the Great Recession – such as Greece , Spain and Italy – there is much less optimism .
After a difficult year in U.S.-Israeli relations , Obama 's ratings have fallen sharply in Israel . Today , just 49 % of Israelis express confidence in him , down from 71 % last year . Obama has had strong , and well-publicized , disagreements with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over negotiations with Iran , and Obama 's ratings are especially low among Israelis who identify with Netanyahu 's Likud Party ( 40 % have confidence ) . Overall , eight-in-ten Israelis disapprove of how Obama is dealing with the issue of Iran 's nuclear program .
These college-educated Millennials are sticking with their jobs longer than their Gen X counterparts . About 75 % of college-educated 25- to 35-year-olds ( 75 % for men and 74 % for women ) had worked for their employer at least 13 months in 2016 . Back in 2000 , somewhat fewer college-educated Gen X women ( 70 % ) had been on the job that long . Among college-educated Gen X men , 72 % had similar tenure . The increasing job tenure of college-educated Millennials is consistent with a decline in employer switching among all working-age adults since the 1980s . The reasons for the decline are not well understood . Recent research indicates that the rise of dual-career households , the decline in middle-skill jobs , occupational licensing and the need for employees to retain health insurance can not account for much of the decline in job-switching . The trend is different among less-educated young adults . For example , among Millennials with a high school education , 70 % of men and 69 % of women had been with their employer at least 13 months . These proportions are similar to their high-school-educated counterparts among today 's Gen Xers in 2000 ( 72 % for men and 71 % for women ) .
Young adults continue to be more likely than older people to express a favorable opinion of labor unions . A 68 % majority of those ages 18 to 29 hold a positive view of unions , compared with only about half ( 51 % ) of those 50 and older . Adults younger than 30 also are somewhat less likely to view businesses favorably : Fewer than half ( 46 % ) hold a favorable opinion of business corporations , while 47 % hold an unfavorable view . By contrast , older Americans are more likely to be positive than negative in their views . Adults under 30 are the only age group in which a larger share has a favorable view of labor unions than of business corporations .
Americans say a parent at home is best : Despite the fact that most mothers in the U.S. work at least part time , 60 % of Americans say children are better off when a parent stays home to focus on the family , while 35 % say they are just as well off when both parents work outside the home .
Two-thirds of U.S. adults say the federal government is doing too little to reduce the effects of global climate change . Similar shares say the government is doing too little to protect water ( 68 % ) and air quality ( 67 % ) , while majorities say the same when it comes to protecting animals and their habitats ( 62 % ) and protecting open lands in the national parks ( 55 % ) .
Speaking of which , just what sort of news are we talking about , anyway ? While Facebook news consumers say they see regularly news about a range of different topics , entertainment news seems to stand out : Almost three-quarters ( 73 % ) said they regularly saw entertainment news on the site . The next most commonly cited topics : community news ( 65 % ) and sports ( 57 % ) .
Germans are more positive about globalization than Americans , but there are divisions within each country . When asked whether globalization in the past few years has been a good thing or bad thing for their country , Americans are about evenly divided ( 47 % vs. 44 % ) . By comparison , nearly six-in-ten Germans ( 59 % ) see globalization as advantageous to their country , while only three-in-ten say it has been a bad thing . ( The surveys did not define globalization . )
While large majorities of Americans ( 73 % in a recent Pew Research Center survey ) support raising the minimum wage , there 's less agreement on what it should be raised to . In the same survey , only 11 % said the federal hourly minimum should be $ 15 or more ; most of those favoring an increase did n't think the minimum should be higher than $ 10.99 .
The public continues to view China as a serious problem , but not an adversary . A plurality of Americans say they view China as a serious problem ( 43 % ) , while smaller shares say China is not a problem for the U.S. ( 31 % ) or consider it an adversary ( 22 % ) . These views are little changed in recent years . There are minor partisan differences in opinions of China . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are somewhat more likely than Democrats and leaners to consider China an adversary . About a quarter of Republicans ( 26 % ) rate China as an adversary , compared with a smaller share of Democrats ( 17 % ) . Roughly a third of Democrats do n't consider China a problem ( 34 % ) along with 27 % of Republicans . There are age and ideological divisions within the GOP . Younger ( ages 18 - 49 ) and moderate and liberal Republicans are less likely than older ( ages 50 and older ) and conservatives to view China in adversarial terms .
Events have had a major impact on public attitudes on this issue . Terrorist attacks generate increased anxieties . For instance , the San Bernardino and Paris shootings in late 2015 had a striking impact . A Pew Research Center survey in December found that 56 % of Americans were more concerned that the government 's anti-terror policies have not gone far enough to protect the country , compared with 28 % who expressed concern that the policies have gone too far in restricting the average person 's civil liberties . Just two years earlier , amid the furor over Edward Snowden 's revelations about National Security Agency surveillance programs , more said their bigger concern was that anti-terror programs had gone too far in restricting civil liberties ( 47 % ) rather than not far enough in protecting the country ( 35 % ) .
Young people have an especially negative view of the way politicians are tackling the issue of cyberbullying – 79 % of teens say elected officials are doing only a fair or poor job of addressing this problem . And smaller majorities have unfavorable views of how groups such as social media sites ( 66 % ) , other users who witness harassment happening online ( 64 % ) or teachers ( 58 % ) are addressing harassment and cyberbullying .
This marriage and education gap has widened as the share of high school graduates who are married has fallen more sharply than the share of college graduates who are married . In 2015 , 45 % of adults ages 18 and older with a high school degree but no college experience were married . This compares with 62 % among those with a bachelor 's degree or higher .
In most cases , however , married and single mothers view child-rearing values similarly . For instance , overwhelming percentages of both groups ( 96 % each ) say it is important for children to be taught responsibility , and about half ( 50 % of married mothers , 55 % of single mothers ) view it as one of the most important values for children to be taught .
As is the case on many climate-related issues , perceptions of whether and how much climate change is affecting local communities are closely tied with political party affiliation . More than eight-in-ten Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party ( 83 % ) say climate change is affecting their local community at least some , compared with 37 % of Republicans and Republican leaners .
As President Obama prepares to address the nation about the militant group ISIS , the public has become more worried about Islamic extremism . Six-in-ten ( 62 % ) are very concerned about the rise of Islamic extremism around the world , which is the largest share dating back to 2007 . A somewhat smaller majority ( 53 % ) is very concerned about the possibility of rising Islamic extremism in the U.S , which ties a record high .
As is the case in views of free speech , there 's little relationship between dissatisfaction with democracy or the perception that a country 's courts treat everyone equally and outside determinations about whether that country has an equitable justice system . Take Spain as an example again : 22 % of Spaniards say the nation 's court system treats everyone fairly , despite the fact that the country is classified by V-Dem as having equality before the law .
A majority of the public believes much of their online activities are being tracked . More Americans say they think that what they do online or on their cellphone is being tracked than believe their offline activities are tracked . They are also more likely to believe companies track more of their activities ( both online and off ) than think that the government is collecting information on them . For example , the majority of Americans believe that all or most of what they do online and on their cellphone is being tracked by companies ( 72 % ) , while just 47 % think the same of the government . Smaller shares believe all or most of their offline activities ( like where they go and who they talk to ) are being tracked by companies ( 31 % ) and the government ( 24 % ) .
Social networking has spread around the world with remarkable speed . In countries such as Britain , the United States , Russia , the Czech Republic and Spain , about half of all adults now use Facebook and similar websites . These sites are also popular in many lower-income nations , where , once people have access to the internet , they tend to use it for social networking .
While just 23 % of those who feel mostly Taiwanese have favorable views of mainland China , a majority ( 57 % ) of those who consider themselves both Chinese and Taiwanese feel this way . Those under age 50 hold less favorable views of mainland China , as do men and those with lower levels of education . Opinions differ by age , national identification and political party when it comes to closer relations with mainland China . Younger people ( ages 18 to 29 ) are less likely than their older counterparts to support closer economic or political ties . Those who consider themselves both Taiwanese and Chinese offer much more support ( 81 % ) for closer economic ties than those who feel only Taiwanese ( 37 % ) ; the gap in smaller on the idea of closer Taipei-Beijing political relations ( 62 % vs. 22 % , respectively ) . Party affiliation also plays a role : More than eight-in-ten KMT supporters feel positively about closer cross-strait economic ties , but just about a quarter of DPP backers share this sentiment . A majority of those who do not feel close to any party welcome the idea of greater Taiwan-mainland economic relations . Seven-in-ten of those who feel an affinity for the KMT ( a party that has traditionally encouraged closer ties to mainland China ) embrace the idea of closer political ties with Beijing , compared with 34 % of those who do n't favor any Taiwanese political party ; just 12 % of DPP adherents want to see more political connectedness with the mainland .
Another driver of the island 's population loss is falling fertility . In 2013 , the average woman in Puerto Rico was estimated to have 1.3 children during her lifetime , a measure called the total fertility rate . A decade ago , the fertility rate was 1.9 . Historically , fertility has dropped during economic recessions .
A median of 72 % across the 34 countries surveyed say a marriage where both the husband and wife have jobs and take care of the house and children is a more satisfying way of life than one where the husband provides for the family and the wife takes care of the house and children . The shares saying that a more egalitarian marriage is better are lowest in Lithuania , Tunisia and Indonesia .
In a year when support for Democratic candidates has eroded , the party 's standing among one key voting group—Latinos—appears as strong as ever . Two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Latino registered voters say they plan to support the Democratic candidate in their local congressional district , while just 22 % support the Republican candidate , according to a nationwide survey of Latinos . If this pro-Democratic margin holds up on Election Day next month , it would be about as wide as in 2008 , when Latinos supported Barack Obama for president over John McCain by 67 % to 31 % ( Lopez , 2008 ) .
For their part , the Chinese increasingly see the U.S. in a negative light as well . In spring 2010 , a few months after a visit to China by President Obama , 58 % of Chinese expressed a favorable opinion of the U.S. Today , more than half of Chinese hold an unfavorable view ( 53 % have an unfavorable view v. 40 % favorable view ) .
In the 40 nations surveyed , a median of 45 % say economic conditions in their country are good . And just 39 % believe that their economy will improve over the next year , a pessimism that echoes projections by the International Monetary Fund that 2015 global growth will be marginally slower than in 2014 . Only in developing nations does a majority ( 58 % ) expect conditions to get better . Nor are publics that optimistic about prospects for the next generation . Just 45 % around the world express the view that today 's children will be better off financially than their parents . But such doubt is largely centered in advanced economies , where only 27 % think kids will be better off . About half or more of those surveyed in emerging markets ( 51 % ) and developing nations ( 54 % ) expect the next generation to exceed their parents financially .
These are among the findings of a new survey by Pew Research Center , conducted March 3 to 29 , 2020 , among 1,000 adults in the U.S . The survey also finds that younger people , who have historically been more positive than older Americans toward China , now increasingly hold negative views of the country and are more prone to see it as a threat to the U.S. than in previous years . Older Americans , however , still take a more negative stance than their younger compatriots on most aspects of the U.S.-China relationship . Across demographic groups , negative views of China abound . Roughly six-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents have unfavorable views of China , as do roughly seven-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . Those with a college degree are just as likely as those with less than a college degree to hold negative views of China ; roughly two-thirds of each group voice this opinion . Older Americans , those ages 50 and older , are more likely than those ages 18 to 29 to have unfavorable views of China . This has been the case every year since the Center first asked the question 15 years ago . But while half or more of those 50 and older have held negative views of China since 2012 , this is the first year in which more than half of younger Americans also have an unfavorable opinion . Among this age group , negative views have roughly doubled since the question was first asked .
New data from comScore Media Metrix , based on the company 's continuously and passively measured consumer panel , show – with variations by application and month analyzed – continuing declines or stagnancy in the number of people with popular peer-to-peer file sharing applications actively running on their computers . Since our last data memo on downloading , in which we reported comScore data gathered between November 2002 and November 2003 , the KaZaa user base dropped most notably . Between November 2003 and February 2004 alone , comScore estimates that over 5 million fewer people are actively running KaZaa .
Roughly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) are very concerned about North Korea having nuclear weapons . And 64 % say that in the event of a serious conflict , the United States should use military force to defend its Asian allies , such as Japan , South Korea or the Philippines , against the Pyongyang regime , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . A further 61 % think sanctions , rather than attempts at closer ties , are the best way to deal with the nuclear threat posed by the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea .
While publics in emerging markets and developing countries are not that happy about their current economic condition , a median of 56 % nevertheless believe that when those who are children today in their countries grow up they will be better off financially than their parents . Just 38 % voice the view that they will be worse off . Indians ( 76 % ) , Nigerians ( 72 % ) and Chileans ( 69 % ) are particularly optimistic about economic prospects for the next generation . Publics in advanced economies are quite pessimistic about young people 's financial prospects , just 34 % believe they will be better off than the current generation . Such despair is particularly strong in Greece , Japan , France , Australia , Canada , Spain and the UK , where roughly seven-in-ten people say today 's children will be worse off .
Overall , 36 % say lowering taxes for large businesses and corporations would help the economy , while an identical share ( 36 % ) say it would hurt the economy ; 25 % do n't think it would make much difference . Views on how these cuts would impact the fairness of the tax system tilt more negative : 44 % say lowering taxes for large businesses and corporations would make the tax system less fair , compared with 25 % who say it would make the system more fair and 27 % who do n't think it would make much difference .
Looking at other political values of GOP voters , Republicans who say the best way to ensure peace is through military strength offer somewhat more positive ratings of Trump than do those who think diplomacy is the best way to ensure peace ( 58 % warm vs. 47 % warm ) . There is little relationship between Republicans ' views of some social issues and ratings of Trump . Those who say homosexuality should be discouraged by society and those who say it should be accepted are about equally warm toward the presumptive GOP nominee . And views about whether society is better off if people prioritize marriage and children similarly show no relationship to views of Trump .
91 % of American adults say that consumers have lost control over how personal information is collected and used by companies . Americans express a broad loss of control over the way their personal data are managed by companies . Fully 91 % of adults `` agree '' or `` strongly agree '' that `` consumers have lost control over how personal information is collected and used by companies . '' This includes 45 % who `` strongly agree '' and 46 % who `` agree '' that consumers have lost control .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted June 16 - 22 among 4,708 adults , including 3,577 registered voters , finds sharp differences in how voters evaluate Trump 's presidency compared with Biden 's presidency , if he is elected . Very few voters – just 9 % – say Trump is an average president ; 37 % say he is a good or great president ; and a much larger share ( 53 % ) say he is poor or terrible , including 42 % who think he is a terrible president . Fewer voters ( 28 % ) say Biden would be a good or great president than say that about Trump as president . And compared with Trump , many more say Biden would be average ; 29 % say he would be an average president . However , 43 % say Biden would be poor or terrible , which is 10 percentage points lower than the share expressing such negative views about Trump as president .
In the new study , nearly a quarter of Americans ( 23 % ) have either consistently liberal ( 13 % ) or consistently conservative views ( 10 % ) . In 2004 , just 11 % were either consistently liberal ( 8 % ) or consistently conservative ( 3 % ) .
Half ( 50 % ) of all Latinos say that the situation of Latinos in this country is worse now than it was a year ago , according to a new nationwide survey of 2,015 Hispanic adults conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center . This pessimism is especially prevalent among immigrants , who account for 54 % of all Hispanic adults in the United States . Fully 63 % of these Latino immigrants say that the situation of Latinos has worsened over the past year . In 2007 , just 42 % of all adult Hispanic immigrants—and just 33 % of all Hispanic adults—said the same thing .
There are ideological differences within both parties over abortion , though this divide is starker within the GOP . Among Republicans , 58 % of the party 's moderates and liberals say abortion should legal in all or most cases , compared with just 29 % of conservative Republicans .
Trump and Biden supporters differ substantially on whether they view their vote as more of an expression of support `` for '' their preferred candidate or `` against '' his opponent . Among registered voters who say they would vote for Donald Trump , a large majority ( 76 % ) say that their choice of Trump is more a vote for Trump , while just 24 % say their choice is more of a vote against Biden . Biden supporters , by contrast , are far more likely than Trump supporters to see their vote as a vote against the opponent : 67 % say their choice is more of a vote against Trump , while only about half as many ( 33 % ) say it is more of a vote for Biden .
Hispanics are significantly more likely than whites to say the Earth is warming because of human activities and that the U.S. should do whatever it takes to protect the environment , a new Pew Research Center analysis finds . In a recent survey , we ask if there is solid evidence that the Earth has been warming over the past few decades . Seven-in-ten Hispanics say the Earth is warming because of human activity , a higher share than among whites ( 44 % ) . More than half ( 56 % ) of blacks say the same . About two-in-ten Hispanics and whites and a quarter of blacks say the Earth is warming because of natural patterns . Overall , a quarter of Americans say there is no solid evidence of global warming . Just 11 % of Hispanics and 17 % of blacks say there is no solid evidence the Earth is getting warmer , while 31 % of whites say the same .
President Obama 's job approval has ticked up in recent months , to 48 % currently , and his rating dwarfs the 26 % approval measure for the leaders of the new Republican Congress . Yet the public is divided over whether Obama or Republican congressional leaders should take the lead in solving the nation 's problems : 40 % say Obama while 38 % say GOP leaders . That is virtually unchanged from a few days after the midterm elections in November . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 18 - 22 , 2015 among 1,504 adults , finds that both parties are viewed by majorities as having strong principles . Somewhat more say this about the GOP ( 63 % ) than the Democratic Party ( 57 % ) .
There are striking differences in levels of science knowledge by education as well as by racial and ethnic group . Men tend to score higher than women on the science knowledge scale , but gender differences are not consistent across questions in the scale . And political party groups are roughly similar in their overall levels of science knowledge , although conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats tend to score higher on the scale than do their more moderate counterparts . There are wide educational differences on science knowledge . Americans with a postgraduate degree get about four more questions correct , on average , than those with a high school degree or less education ( 9.1 of 11 questions vs. 5 of 11 ) . Roughly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Americans with a postgraduate degree are classified as high in science knowledge , answering at least nine of 11 items correctly . By contrast , about two-in-ten ( 19 % ) of those with a high school degree or less perform as well on the scale . There are substantial differences in levels of science knowledge by race and ethnicity . Whites are more likely than Hispanics or blacks to score higher on the index . Whites get an average of 7.6 correct out of 11 questions , while Hispanics average 5.1 correct answers and blacks 3.7 correct answers .4 Roughly half of whites ( 48 % ) are classified as having high science knowledge on the scale , answering at least nine questions correctly , compared with 23 % of Hispanics and 9 % of blacks .
Just 47 % of the French say it is morally unacceptable for married people to have an affair , the lowest percentage among 39 nations surveyed in 2013 by the Pew Research Center . In fact , France was the only country where less than 50 % of respondents described infidelity as unacceptable . Instead , four-in-ten think it is not a moral issue , while 12 % say it is actually morally acceptable . And there is essentially no gender gap on this issue , with 45 % of French men and 50 % of women saying affairs are unacceptable . Across the countries polled , a median of 79 % consider infidelity unacceptable , including an overwhelming 84 % of Americans . This belief is especially widespread in predominantly Muslim nations – nine-in-ten or more hold this view in the Palestinian territories , Turkey , Indonesia , Jordan , Egypt , Pakistan , Lebanon , Malaysia and Tunisia .
As with many other attitudes , partisans ' trust in government tracks party control of the presidency . The share of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents who say they trust the government at least most of the time is higher today ( 22 % ) than during the Obama administration . Yet the current level of Republican trust in government is relatively low compared with past Republican administrations . The share of Republicans saying they trusted the government always or most of the time was much higher during most of George W. Bush 's presidency , and throughout the entire administrations of George H.W . Bush and Ronald Reagan . Just 15 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say they trust the federal government always or most of the time , which is lower than during the Obama administration and among the lowest levels of Democratic trust in government in the past 60 years . Democrats ' trust in government was about this low toward the end of Bush 's presidency in 2008 .
In the U.S. , seven-in-ten say that relations with Germany are good , a sentiment that has not changed much in the past year . Germans , on the other hand , are much more negative : 73 % say that relations with the U.S. are bad , a 17-percentage-point increase since 2017 .
More than any other issue , the public and scientists had very different views about the safety of eating genetically modified ( GM ) foods . A majority of the general public ( 57 % ) says that GM foods are generally unsafe to eat , while 37 % say such foods are safe ; by contrast , 88 % of AAAS scientists say GM foods are generally safe .
Most people vote , but they participate in relatively few other political activities . Whether they are required to by national law or they do so out of civic duty , most people in emerging and developing countries vote . A median of 78 % say they have voted at some point , more than double the amount of any other political activity tested , including attending campaign events and protesting . Participation in online political activities is low – just 7 % say they have posted links to political articles and 9 % have posted online political comments .
Voters in 2018 who did not vote in 2016 were a small group ( about 11 % of all 2018 voters ) but an important part of why the Democratic Party made gains . Among the 2016 nonvoters who voted in 2018 , Democratic House candidates led Republican House candidates by a more than a two-to-one ( 68 % to 29 % ) margin .
But when asked which story they followed most closely this week , news coming from Iraq remains the clear priority . By more than three-to-one ( 26 % vs. 7 % ) a larger share cite events in Iraq rather than the policy debate at home as the single topic they followed most closely . Despite limited coverage , there remains a core audience for news about Anna Nicole Smith ; 16 % of Americans followed reports on Ms. Smith 's autopsy results the most closely – a story which filled only 2 % of the newshole this past week . Overall , roughly twice as many people focused on this story as focused on reports about the 2008 campaign or on the Iraq policy debate in Washington , even though each of the last two stories received three-times the press coverage .
The ruling has been one of the most anticipated of the Court 's term . A new Pew Research Center survey found that 35 % of the public said they were `` very interested '' in how the Court would rule — about as many as expressed that level of interest in two pending same-sex marriage cases and in Monday 's affirmative-action decision .
With less than a year to go in his presidency , Barack Obama 's job rating is in positive territory for the first time in nearly three years . Currently , 51 % of the public approves of the way Obama is handling his job as president , while 44 % disapprove . In January , Obama 's job ratings were more mixed ( 46 % approve vs. 48 % disapprove ) .
By a healthy margin , people in Canada have a positive view of the U.S . Roughly seven-in-ten Canadians ( 68 % ) view their neighbor favorably , while 26 % hold an unfavorable opinion . Among the other countries and institutions tested , the most admired is the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) . A 56 % majority have a favorable view of the organization . Fewer Canadians have a positive opinion of other countries tested , including only 39 % with a favorable view of China . Even fewer have positive views of Russia ( 26 % ) and Iran ( 16 % ) .
Today , just 44 % of Republicans view illegal immigration as a top priority , down from 69 % in 2007 and 61 % as recently as two years ago . Six years ago , illegal immigration was the second-highest priority after terrorism for Republicans ; today , it is tied for 12th . Fewer Democrats and independents also rate illegal immigration as a top priority than they did in 2007 . Just 40 % of independents and 35 % of Democrats see illegal immigration as a top priority , down from 53 % and 50 % , respectively , in 2007 .
In 2011 , 3 million recent movers who were previously homeowners became renters , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Housing Survey data . This is substantially greater than the flow into renter status observed in 2001 , when 2.56 million prior homeowners became renters .
State voting rules are seen as fair , but nearly a third say lower-income people have less access . An overwhelming majority of Americans ( 83 % ) say the election rules in their state are fair . Yet nearly one-in-five ( 17 % ) say black citizens in their state have less access to voting than whites , 27 % say Hispanics have less access than whites and 30 % say lower-income citizens have less access to voting than middle-income people .
On the minimum wage , a large majority of Hispanic voters ( 79 % ) say they favor raising it to $ 15 an hour , including more than half ( 56 % ) who say they strongly favor this change . Majorities in both parties favor raising the minimum wage , though Hispanic Democrats are much more likely than Hispanic Republicans to do so ( 88 % vs. 62 % , respectively ) .
Most Americans say they think of scientists as neither politically liberal nor conservative , according to a Pew Research Center survey . Some 64 % of Americans perceive scientists as neither liberal nor conservative . Another 24 % of adults think scientists are politically liberal and 7 % say scientists are politically conservative . While the perception of scientists as politically liberal outnumbers the share saying scientists are conservative , these perceptions are roughly the same as in a 2009 Pew Research survey .
As was the case during the campaign , perceptions of Trump 's ideological views are divided , though only modestly along partisan lines . Overall , 46 % characterize Trump 's views as all or mostly conservative , while 41 % think of his views as a mix of conservative and liberal ( 9 % say his views are all or mostly liberal ) . But among Republicans , beliefs about Trump 's views tend to mirror their own : 57 % of conservative Republicans and leaners say Trump 's views are all or mostly conservative , while moderate Republicans are more likely to think of him as having a mix of conservative and liberal views ( 34 % say his views are conservative , 52 % say they are a mix ) .
Public perceptions of economic news have turned much more negative . Currently , 42 % say they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy , the highest percentage in a year . Last month , 30 % of the public said they were hearing mostly bad news about the economy . The proportion saying they are hearing a mix of good and bad economic news has declined from 65 % in June to 54 % currently . This marks the first time this year that the percentage hearing mixed economic news has fallen below 60 % , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted July 1 - 5 among 1,007 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Just 3 % say they are hearing mostly good news , about the same as the 4 % that said this last month . More Americans also say they are hearing mostly bad news about two major aspects of the economy – the job situation and real estate values – than did so in May . Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) say they are hearing mostly bad news about jobs , up from 52 % in May .
The Center 's study focuses on the U.S. public 's reactions to three emerging technologies that could fundamentally improve people 's health , cognitive abilities or physical capacities . The specific examples were gene editing to give a healthy baby a much reduced risk of serious diseases and conditions over their lifetime ; implanting a computer chip in the brain to give a healthy person a much improved ability to concentrate and process information ; and a transfusion with synthetic blood to give healthy people much improved speed , strength and stamina . Thus , it may be surprising in light of all that promise to see that Americans are largely cautious about using emerging technologies in ways that push human capacities beyond what 's been possible before . Among the findings from the survey of 4,726 U.S. adults conducted March 2 - 28 , 2016 :
Overall , 55 % of the Turkish public says the military is having a good influence on the way things are going in Turkey . An equal number say the same about the police . Around half see the national government ( 51 % ) , Prime Minister Erdogan ( 48 % ) and civil servants ( 47 % ) as a positive influence on the country . Less than four-in-ten say this about the court system ( 37 % ) , religious leaders ( 37 % ) and the media ( 32 % ) .
Trust in other people is relatively high in 14 advanced economies surveyed by Pew Research Center this past summer . But while a median of 62 % of adults across these countries generally believe most people can be trusted , there are significant differences in these views by age , education and other factors , according to a new analysis of findings from the survey . Overall , personal trust is highest in Denmark , where 86 % say most people can generally be trusted . Majorities in 10 other countries agree , including about seven-in-ten or more in the Netherlands , Canada , Sweden , Australia and the UK . People are more divided in Spain and France , where 53 % and 50 % , respectively , say most other people can be trusted . The only country where fewer than half of respondents say most people are trustworthy is Italy , where 43 % hold that opinion .
An overwhelming majority of Americans ( 81 % ) are aware of news reports that John McCain may have had an improper relationship with a female lobbyist several years ago . About half ( 48 % ) of the public has heard a lot about this story , which first appeared in the New York Times late last week . Another 33 % has heard at least a little about the story . By a nearly two-to-one margin those who have heard about the McCain story think the New York Times was wrong to publish it — 57 % say the Times did the wrong thing in publishing the story , 33 % say the paper did the right thing . Republicans are only slightly more likely than Democrats to have heard about the McCain story ( 87 % of Republicans have heard at least a little compared with 80 % of Democrats ) . However , partisan views on the role of the New York Times differ dramatically . By a 75 % to 16 % margin Republicans who are aware of the story say the Times did the wrong thing by publishing it . Democrats are evenly split on the issue — 47 % say the Times was wrong , 45 % say the paper was right . Independents have a more negative view of the Times ' decision ( 55 % wrong , 33 % right ) .
The number of refugees resettled in the U.S. decreased more than in any other country in 2017 . That year the U.S. resettled 33,000 refugees , the lowest total since the two years after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 , 2001 , and a steep drop from 2016 . Non-U.S. countries resettled more than twice as many refugees as the U.S. in 2017 , marking the first time since the adoption of the 1980 U.S . Refugee Act that America 's total fell below the combined total from the rest of the world .
A record low 33 % of Venezuelans said their standard of living was improving , according to a Gallup poll conducted last fall and released Tuesday . Just a year earlier , 54 % had said their standard of living was improving .
In a second term marked by a series of controversies and little legislative success , President Obama 's job approval rating has nonetheless remained fairly steady . Currently , 49 % approve of the way Obama is handling his job as president while 43 % disapprove .
Despite double-digit percentage decreases in U.S. violent and property crime rates since 2008 , most voters say crime has gotten worse during that span , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The disconnect is nothing new , though : Americans ' perceptions of crime are often at odds with the data . Leading up to Election Day , a majority ( 57 % ) of those who had voted or planned to vote said crime has gotten worse in this country since 2008 . Almost eight-in-ten voters who supported President-elect Donald Trump ( 78 % ) said this , as did 37 % of backers of Democrat Hillary Clinton . Just 5 % of pro-Trump voters and a quarter of Clinton supporters said crime has gotten better since 2008 , according to the survey of 3,788 adults conducted Oct. 25-Nov. 8 .
A plurality of women ( 48 % ) say they work in places where there are more women than men , while 18 % say there are more men than women , according to a Pew Research Center survey . Similarly , 44 % of men say their workplace is majority-male , and 19 % say women outnumber men . About a third of women ( 33 % ) and men ( 36 % ) say both genders are about equally represented in their workplace .
The share of Americans ages 18 and older who are currently married inched downward in 2013 , to 50.3 % , compared with 50.5 % in 2012 , according to Pew Research Center calculations from the 2013 American Community Survey .
Few Americans ( 17 % ) paid very close attention to news about the congressional `` super committee '' last week as the panel approached its deadline to agree on a plan to cut federal spending and reduce the national deficit .
Gen X households also experienced a stronger recovery in financial assets than Boomer and Silent households . The median financial assets of Gen X households nearly doubled from 2010 ( $ 11,300 ) to 2016 ( $ 21,600 ) . In comparison , Boomer and Silent households ' financial assets are at a level similar to before the Great Recession . In addition , unlike their older counterparts , Gen Xers are still of prime working age . Higher household income tends to boost wealth because it enables families to save and add to wealth . Gen X 's ability to rebuild its wealth may reflect its relatively robust household income growth since 2010 . The median adjusted household income of Gen X households increased more than 20 % and , at $ 73,200 in 2016 , surpassed that of other generations . The oldest Gen Xer was 51 as of 2016 , meaning that Gen X workers are still approaching their peak earning years . The number of Gen Xers in the labor force has remained stable since 2008 , whereas the Boomer and Silent labor force has shrunk through retirements and deaths .
A Pew Research analysis of more than a quarter million tweets found that 43 % of the Twitter conversation about the potential 2016 presidential hopeful was critical of him or his administration while 14 % defended Christie or criticized his opponents . The analysis covered the period between 9 a.m. Jan. 8 and 7 p.m. on Jan. 9 , the day of Christie 's press conference .
The Trump administration also gets low marks from the public for its ethical standards : 39 % say the administration 's ethical standards are excellent or good , while 58 % rate them as not good or poor . On these views partisans are deeply divided , with three-quarters of Republicans ( 75 % ) giving the administration high marks and 86 % of Democrats rating its ethical standards negatively .
Most noteworthy , people with no religious affiliation are the only group with a majority ( 56 % ) saying that ventilators should be saved for those with the highest chance of recovery in the event that there are not enough resources to go around , even if that means some patients do n't receive the same aggressive treatment because they are older , sicker and less likely to survive . This view aligns with medical guidelines that typically call for a utilitarian approach — one that prioritizes good outcomes for the greatest number of people .
Race relations in the United States are a work in progress , as always , but most blacks , whites and Hispanics say they get along reasonably well with each other . In the Pew Research Center 's recent report on race in America , 81 % of whites and 73 % of blacks say those two groups get along `` very '' or `` pretty '' well . When the same question was asked six years ago , 77 % of whites and 69 % of blacks said their groups generally got along well together .
About a quarter ( 27 % ) say news about the condition of the U.S. economy was their top story , while just 7 % cite the Occupy Wall Street protests as their top story . Looking at a separate measure , 43 % say they followed economic news very closely , compared with 17 % for the protests , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Oct. 6 - 9 among 1,000 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . News about the spreading anti-Wall Street protests accounted for 7 % of coverage , nearly four times the level of coverage one week earlier , according to an analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . But there is significantly less public interest in the current Occupy Wall Street protests than there was in the Tea Party protests in early 2009 , when they were receiving comparable levels of media coverage . And notably , partisans are about equally likely to say they are tracking the current protests very closely , a sharp contrast with the intense Republican interest in early Tea Party protests in 2009 .
Mexico 's military continues to be highly rated , with about six-in-ten ( 61 % ) saying the military has a positive impact on the way things are going in the country . Roughly half or more list the media , national government and religious leaders as positive influences in Mexico , mostly unchanged from a year ago . Rounding out the bottom of the list , only about one-third or fewer name the court system , Congress and police as good influences . Views of the court system and Congress remain relatively unchanged since last year .
Age also is a factor in these views : By more than two-to-one ( 60 % vs. 26 % ) , those younger than 30 say they have been helped more than hurt financially by free trade agreements . Those in older age groups are more divided in their views of the personal impact of free trade agreements .
But , unlike views of the national economy , partisanship has less to do with judgments of one 's personal finances . Rather , socioeconomic factors are dominant . For example , college grads now size up their finances roughly as well as they did before the Great Recession took a toll on their outlook . In contrast , personal financial assessments of the less well-educated Americans have not improved as the economy has recovered after the Great Recession . And economic satisfaction has declined proportionately more since 2007 among those earning less than $ 100,000 per family than among those with family incomes of $ 100,000 or more .
However , it is clear that in addition to democracy , the economy and public safety are top priorities . Fully 83 % rate improving economic conditions as very important , and 62 % believe it is very important to live in a country with law and order .
Around the globe , people are anxiously following the U.S. financial crisis as it evolves into a worldwide meltdown . People nearly everywhere realize that what happens in the American economy can have a big impact on them . But even before this fall 's financial crisis , a 24-nation Pew Global Attitudes survey conducted in March-April 20081 found that many in other countries already felt the U.S. economy was having a negative impact on their own country 's economy . The survey also found that publics around the world were giving their national economies increasingly negative ratings . With the U.S. receiving at least some of the blame for the world 's increasingly dour economic outlook , this adds yet another challenge for America 's global image . In recent weeks , many countries have had tangible reason to deplore America 's economic influence . But publics worldwide were already well aware that U.S. economic conditions have an impact on their own economies . Most — including the United States itself — viewed that influence in a negative light . In spring of 2008 , majorities in 21 of 23 countries surveyed outside of the U.S. said that what happens in the American economy affects economic conditions in their own country . More than 80 % took this view in nine countries : Japan , South Korea , Australia , Britain , Germany , Egypt , Lebanon , Jordan and France . Interestingly , the only two countries in which less than a majority said the U.S. has a significant impact were China and Pakistan . Slightly less than half in China ( 46 % ) held this view , as did just 41 % of Pakistanis ( 35 % of Pakistanis do not offer an opinion ) . In regions throughout the world , people who believe the U.S. economy influences their own economy tend to say it is a negative rather than a positive influence . Majorities or pluralities in 14 of the 23 non-U.S. publics surveyed considered U.S. economic influence to be negative . Seventy percent or more of those polled expressed this view in Britain ( 72 % ) , Germany ( 72 % ) , Australia ( 71 % ) , Turkey ( 70 % ) and France ( 70 % ) .
In the case of ride-hailing apps , like Uber and Lyft , proponents of these services often argue that they can help promote racial equity in transportation – for instance , they might serve customers in lower-income or minority neighborhoods where traditional taxis are often scarce . Overall , 15 % of blacks and 18 % of Latinos have used ride-hailing , similar to the 14 % of whites who have done so , according to a Pew Research Center survey exploring the digital economy . And a new analysis of this survey data finds that Americans who live in majority-minority communities ( census-block groups where more than 50 % of residents are racial or ethnic minorities ) are more likely than those who reside in predominately white neighborhoods to say that ride-hailing apps serve neighborhoods that taxis wo n't visit . Just over half ( 53 % ) of ride-hailing users living in majority-minority communities feel that this statement describes ride-hailing well , compared with 46 % of users living in majority-white neighborhoods . ( Many ride-hailers – about four-in-ten overall – were unsure if this statement described ride-hailing well ) .
In a poll conducted September 5 - 8 , 35 % say their opinion of McCain has become more favorable in recent days , while 24 % say their opinion of the Republican nominee has become less favorable . This marks the second week in a row where changing opinions of McCain have been more positive than negative . For her part , Palin appears to have helped boost McCain 's image , and her convention speech drew a highly favorable response . However , only a narrow majority ( 52 % ) says she is qualified to serve as president , while 39 % say she is not qualified . Obama 's image was largely unchanged last week . While 20 % say they have come to have a more favorable opinion of him in recent days , an identical percentage says their opinion is less favorable ; most people ( 59 % ) say their opinion of Obama has not changed . A week earlier , just after the Democratic convention , 29 % said their opinion of Obama had improved recently compared with 19 % who said their view of him had become less favorable .
The survey shows that higher levels of familiarity with Islam , and especially knowing someone who is Muslim , are associated with more positive views toward the religion . For example , among the group with the highest level of familiarity with Islam , most reject the idea that Islam encourages violence ( 57 % ) . By contrast , fewer than half of those with medium familiarity with Islam ( 46 % ) and one-third of those with little familiarity ( 34 % ) reject the idea of a link between Islam and violence . Not surprisingly , people with lower levels of familiarity with Islam exhibit higher levels of non-response in attitudes about Islam , saying they do not know whether it is more or less likely than other religions to encourage violence . Similarly , those with the highest levels of familiarity with Islam express the most favorable views of Muslims . Nearly six-in-ten of those most familiar with Islam express favorable views of Muslims , compared with less than four-in-ten among those with less familiarity .
Two additional groups have notably different views about childhood vaccines than others . One is the 20 % of adults who report they have used alternative medicine instead of traditional medicine . The other is 8 % of Americans who report that they never take over-the-counter medications .
In 1954 , the earliest year for which the Bureau of Labor Statistics has consistent unemployment data by race , the white rate averaged 5 % and the black rate averaged 9.9 % . Last month , the jobless rate among whites was 6.6 % ; among blacks , 12.6 % . Over that time , the unemployment rate for blacks has averaged about 2.2 times that for whites .
As President Obama prepares to address the nation about the militant group ISIS , the public has become more worried about Islamic extremism . Six-in-ten ( 62 % ) are very concerned about the rise of Islamic extremism around the world , which is the largest share dating back to 2007 . A somewhat smaller majority ( 53 % ) is very concerned about the possibility of rising Islamic extremism in the U.S , which ties a record high .
The total number of individual members – defined as anyone who has given money to one of the stations owned by these 123 licensees in each calendar year – in 2017 was 2.3 million , about a 10 % increase over the previous year .
The U.S.-born children of immigrants ( second-generation Americans ) make up 12 % of the nation 's population . By 2050 , immigrants and their children could account for 19 % and 18 % of the population , respectively , according to Pew Research Center projections .
A growing number of people around the globe see China 's economy as the most powerful in the world . Looking at the 20 countries surveyed in each of the last three years , China 's economic star keeps rising . The median number naming China as the world 's leading economy has risen from 20 % to 31 % . Meanwhile , the percentage naming the U.S. has dropped from 50 % to 43 % . The publics of the countries surveyed vary in their views of China 's growing economic clout . In the West , opinion is divided in Britain , while majorities in Germany , France and Spain and a plurality in the U.S. see China 's economic strength as a bad thing for their country .
Certain groups of teachers are more likely than others to work a summer job outside the school system , including those with less teaching experience and who are younger – groups that tend to have lower salaries . Male teachers and teachers at the secondary level also are more likely than their female and primary level counterparts to take additional work outside of the classroom , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of NCES data for the 2015 - 16 school year , the most recent year with available data . Roughly one-third ( 32 % ) of teachers with one year or less of teaching experience had a non-school job over the summer break before the school year – a far larger share than that of public school teachers overall . By comparison , 20 % of teachers with two to four years of experience took on summer employment that year , as did 17 % of teachers with five to nine years of experience . Teachers younger than 30 are more likely to hold summer jobs than their older colleagues . About a quarter ( 26 % ) of teachers under 30 worked during the summer of 2015 , compared with 16 % of those ages 30 to 39 , 14 % of those 40 to 49 , and 12 % of those 50 and older .
Changes in unemployment during the recession reveal a rapidly worsening situation for foreign-born Hispanics , native-born Hispanics and blacks in the labor market . The unemployment rates for these groups increased by similar amounts from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the fourth quarter of 2008 . However , the number of unemployed persons increased at a much faster rate for foreign-born Hispanics .
Americans ' views of free trade agreements have grown increasingly positive . Today , 65 % of the public says free trade agreements between the U.S. and other countries have been a good thing for the United States and 22 % say they have been a bad thing . While Democrats have been consistently positive about free trade agreements in recent years , Republicans turned more negative during the 2016 presidential campaign . But today , 59 % of Republicans say free trade agreements are good for the U.S – roughly double the share who said this in October 2016 ( 29 % ) .
While at least 13 % of voting members in Congress are immigrants or children of immigrants , relatively few of these are foreign born : 13 in the House , and just one – Sen. Mazie Hirono , D-Hawaii – in the Senate . These 14 immigrant lawmakers represent just 3 % of all voting members in both chambers , a slight uptick from recent Congresses but substantially below the foreign-born share of Congresses many decades ago . ( For example , about 10 % of members in the first and much smaller Congress of 1789 - 91 were foreign born . About a century later , in the 50th Congress of 1887 - 89 , 8 % of members were born abroad , according to a previous analysis . ) The current share of foreign-born lawmakers in Congress is also far below the foreign-born share of the United States as a whole , which was 13.5 % as of 2016 .
The pattern is more mixed for other values related to freedom of expression . Since 1999 , support for the idea of banning `` books with dangerous ideas '' from public school libraries has declined from 55 % to 46 % . It has now fallen to the lowest level of support of the past 20 years . But even in the early 1990s , as few as 48 % had supported banning such books .
The Obama administration has had its share of ups and downs during the last five years when it comes to how the public sees it , but there 's been at least one constant on the positive side — the large number of Americans who have a favorable view of First Lady Michelle Obama . Because Michelle Obama 's unfavorable rating among conservative Republicans stood out , we looked back at other first ladies to see how they fared among the public , as well as those at the far end of the opposition party . To be sure , comparing first ladies and how the public views them is a tricky exercise because there is no `` job description '' for the position and each one has shaped her role in different ways and in different political environments .
Meanwhile , Americans have become less confident that the federal government is making serious efforts to protect U.S. elections from hacking and other technological threats . Since October 2018 , the share of Americans who say this has declined from 55 % to 47 % . Confidence in the government 's efforts to protect election systems has declined among members of both parties , though Republicans remain far more likely than Democrats to express confidence ( 65 % vs. 32 % ) .
When asked to reflect on their teen 's cellphone use , a majority of parents ( 72 % ) feel their teen is at least sometimes distracted by their cellphone when they are trying to have a conversation with them . Indeed , 30 % of parents say their teen often does this . At the same time , this sense of distraction caused by cellphones is not an entirely teen-specific phenomenon . When asked this question about their parent 's behavior , half of teens say their parent is distracted by their own phone at least sometimes during conversations between them ( 51 % ) , with 14 % of teens reporting that their parent is often distracted in this way .
Americans ' and Germans ' views of the relationship between their two countries remain sharply divergent . Americans continue to be rosy in their views of their country 's relationship with Germany , with nearly three-quarters saying that relations are good . Nearly two-in-ten Americans say that the relationship is very good ( 19 % ) , the largest share in four years of polling and up 6 percentage points from 2019 . Among Germans , 79 % say that the relationship with the U.S. is bad , a 15 percentage point increase in those saying this since 2019 and the highest negative sentiment in four years of surveys . The share of Germans who say that relations with the U.S. are good is at a mere 18 % , the lowest point measured over the same time .
Interest in the investigation and arrests following the attempted car bombing in Times Square was similar : 37 % say they followed this story very closely , while 13 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the arrest of Faisal Shahzad , reports about potential links to the Taliban in Pakistan and the implications on U.S. anti-terror policies accounted for 25 % of the newshole , higher than any other story last week . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they very closely followed news about flooding in Nashville , Tenn. , and other parts of the Southeast ; 11 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the flooding accounted for 4 % of coverage , according to PEJ . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they very closely followed news about the financial crisis in Greece and violent protests there . Just 4 % say this was the story they followed most closely , while news about the crisis made up 4 % of coverage .
Americans and Germans differ when people in each country are asked which nations are their first and second most important partners . Combining both first and second mentions , Americans name Great Britain more than any other country ( 33 % ) , followed by China ( 24 % ) , Germany ( 12 % ) , Israel ( 12 % ) and Canada ( 10 % ) . In Germany , France gathers the most votes as either first or second most important partner ( 63 % ) , followed by the U.S. ( 43 % ) . Lagging far behind in the eyes of Germans are Russia ( 11 % ) , China ( 7 % ) and Great Britain ( 6 % ) .
In 2016 , according to the World Bank , the average applied U.S. tariff across all products was 1.61 % ; that was about the same as the average rate of 1.6 % for the 28-nation EU , and not much higher than Japan 's 1.35 % . Among other major U.S. trading partners , Canada 's average applied tariff rate was 0.85 % , China 's was 3.54 % and Mexico 's was 4.36 % . ( Those average rates are weighted by product import shares with all of each nation 's trading partners , and do n't necessarily reflect the provisions of specific trade deals . Under NAFTA , for instance , most trade between the U.S. , Canada and Mexico is duty-free . ) That generations-long debate can be seen in the oscillations of U.S. tariff levels throughout history . In 1821 , when reliable tariff statistics begin , nearly all imports ( 95.5 % ) were taxed , and duties imposed equaled 43.2 % of the total value of all imports and 45 % of the dutiable value . For the next 100+ years , U.S. trade policy followed a fairly predictable pattern : When Democrats controlled the levers of power , tariff rates were lower ; when Whigs or Republicans regained control , rates were higher . The culmination of this perennial drama – what one contemporary writer called `` an endless performance in which the actors are unskilled and the audience dissatisfied ; and yet the same old play is staged over and over and over again '' – was the infamous Smoot-Hawley Tariff of 1930 , which raised import duties on thousands of agricultural and industrial goods . By 1932 , U.S. tariffs equaled 59.1 % of the value of dutiable imports , the highest level since 1830 . Although duties represented only 19.6 % of the value of all imports ( since by that time around two-thirds of imported goods were duty-free ) , that was still the highest level since before World War I . A 1995 survey of economic historians found broad agreement that Smoot-Hawley exacerbated the Great Depression , though to what extent is still debated .
Still , the majority of Americans are not confident about the way companies will behave when it comes to using and protecting their personal data . Roughly seven-in-ten or more say they are not too or not at all confident that companies will admit mistakes and take responsibility when they misuse or compromise data ( 79 % ) , will be held accountable by government if they misuse data ( 75 % ) , or will use customers ' data in ways that people would feel comfortable with ( 69 % ) .
Broad public recognition of China 's growing pains notwithstanding , the polling found broad acceptance of China 's transformation from a socialist to a capitalist society . Seven-in-ten say people are better off in a free market economy , even though this means some may be rich while others are poor . This sentiment is true across demographic groups , and even those in the low-income category believe in the benefits of the free market system . The social changes in Chinese society that have accompanied the transformation and growth of the economy get a somewhat mixed review . On the one hand , about seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say they like the pace of modern life . But on the other , many worry about vanishing traditions – 59 % believe their traditional way of life is getting lost , while just 37 % say these traditions remain strong .
As Americans prepare for Thanksgiving , most U.S. adults ( 59 % ) say their family is OK with talking about politics , while 40 % say they try to avoid the subject . But the willingness of families to engage in political talk is tied to their level of political agreement , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Nov. 7 - 13 , 2018 .
Large-scale protests and rallies for racial equality have captured public attention and amplified calls for policy reforms in recent weeks . Some 6 % of U.S. adults say they have attended a protest or rally that focused on issues related to race or racial equality in the last month , and those who have are more likely to be nonwhite and younger than Americans overall , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . They are also more likely to live in an urban area and to identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) of those who say they recently attended a protest focused on race are younger than 30 ; among all U.S. adults , 19 % are in this age group . In turn , those ages 50 and older are underrepresented among the protesters , while those ages 30 to 49 represent a similar share of those who have attended a protest as they do of the adult population overall . City dwellers , who represent 28 % of the adults surveyed , make up 41 % of those who say they have protested within the past month . Some 42 % of people who participated in last month 's protests live in the suburbs ( compared with 47 % of all adults ) , and those who live in rural areas account for 17 % of recent protesters , compared with 25 % of the survey sample .
Just over half ( 54 % ) of U.S. adults say they were in favor of greater access to experimental drugs before clinical trials have shown drugs to be safe or effective , while 43 % oppose wider access . Views , however , vary greatly by household income and race . Nearly three-quarters ( 72 % ) of adults who live in households earning $ 75,000 or more a year favor allowing more people access to experimental drugs before clinical trials are finished , while 26 % are against wider availability of such drugs . In comparison , adults whose annual family income is less than $ 30,000 are more divided on the issue : 46 % are in favor of wider access while 51 % are in opposition .
However , for the population it is meant to describe , only 23 % of U.S. adults who self-identify as Hispanic or Latino have heard of the term Latinx , and just 3 % say they use it to describe themselves , according to a nationally representative , bilingual survey of U.S. Hispanic adults conducted in December 2019 by Pew Research Center .
The British have long thought that the EU was inefficient and intrusive and has mishandled the challenges facing Europe . In a 2014 Pew Research Center survey , 64 % of the British thought the EU was inefficient and does not understand the needs of its citizens . Six-in-ten said it was intrusive . In this year 's survey , 70 % in the UK disapprove of the EU 's handling of the refugee issue and 55 % said the same about the EU 's dealing with economic issues .
The age divides are substantial : 68 % of registered voters ages 18 to 29 say the U.S. is successful more because of its ability to change . The share who express this view declines across each older age group — just 39 % of those ages 65 and older associate U.S. success more with the country 's ability to change , while 58 % attribute it more to the nation 's reliance on long-standing principles . White voters are divided over whether an ability to change ( 47 % ) or a reliance on long-standing principles ( 51 % ) has more to do with the nation 's success . However , majorities of Black ( 62 % ) and Hispanic ( 60 % ) voters say the country 's ability to change has more to do with its success .
Home ownership was on the rise well before the mortgage mania of the mid-2000s , aided by falling interest rates and government policies designed to encourage it . But the bursting of the bubble and the wrenching recession that followed forced tens , if not hundreds , of thousands of families to lose their homes ; home ownership now is down to levels not seen since the mid-1990s . The bust 's impact was particularly severe on non-whites : While home ownership among non-Hispanic whites is 2.8 percentage points below its peak , home ownership among blacks is down 6.6 percentage points to 43.1 % , and down 6 percentage points among people of all other races , to 54.6 % . Among Hispanics , home ownership has fallen to 45.3 % in the first quarter of this year from 50.1 % in the third quarter of 2007 .
In the new survey , 55 % of voters say they have given a lot of thought to the election , which is about the same as in October 2006 ( 54 % ) , but much higher than levels in the three previous midterms .
Currently , 83 % of registered voters say it really matters who wins the presidency , up from 74 % four years ago and the highest share saying this in two decades of Pew Research Center surveys . Nearly identical shares of registered voters in both parties say it really matters who prevails ; other indicators of engagement with the election are equally high among Republican and Democratic voters .
People in other countries see the U.S. response to the pandemic negatively . A 13-country median of just 15 % say the U.S. has done a good job of dealing with the outbreak . By contrast , half or more of adults in nearly all 13 countries rate the World Health Organization and European Union favorably on their coronavirus response . Relatively few think China has handled the pandemic well , although it still receives considerably better reviews than the U.S. in most countries .
Three-in-ten Americans ( 31 % ) followed campaign news very closely and an equal number called the race their most closely followed news story of the week . Democrats were slightly more likely than Republicans to have followed campaign news very closely ( 39 % -31 % ) . Overall interest in campaign news is down somewhat from February and early March . The percentage of Americans following the campaign very closely had been at or near 40 % since early February and has started to slip over the past two weeks . Despite receiving a significantly smaller share of media coverage , the condition of the U.S. economy is of at least as much interest to the American public . More than four-in-ten followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely and 28 % listed economic news as their most closely followed story . Republicans and Democrats followed the news in equal numbers , while those earning under $ 30,000 a year were less likely than higher earners to have followed the story very closely . In other news , with the 4,000th U.S. military death in Iraq and renewed violence in the country , news coverage of the Iraq war increased last week . The media devoted 12 % of its overall coverage to events in Iraq . This is by far the greatest amount of coverage devoted to Iraq in any given week thus far this year . In spite of the increase in coverage , public interest in the war remained steady : 29 % followed Iraq news very closely ( virtually unchanged from the previous four weeks ) and 13 % listed the war as the news story they followed most closely last week . The ongoing NCCA basketball tournament was the top story for 9 % of the public and 13 % said they followed the story very closely . Unsurprisingly , men ( 19 % very closely ) were more than twice as likely as women ( 8 % very closely ) to have been following the tournament very closely .
However , inequality is a major concern in other regions as well . A median of 68 % rate it a very big problem in Latin America , while 60 % say the same in the Middle East .
A broad majority of Tunisians ( 81 % ) express dissatisfaction with the way things are going in their country . Fewer than two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they are satisfied with the country 's direction . Just 13 % of 18 - 29 year olds are satisfied , while slightly more of those 50 and over ( 24 % ) express satisfaction with national conditions .
As the overall size of the online political news audience has grown , the internet has taken a front-and-center role within the media environment . Among the entire population , the internet is now on par with newspapers as a major source of campaign news—26 % of all adults get most of their election news from the internet , compared with the 28 % who get their election news from newspapers—although television remains the dominant source of political news in this country .
YouTube has emerged as a key platform for both younger and older kids . Fully 89 % of parents of a child age 5 to 11 say their child watches videos on YouTube , as do 81 % of those who have a child age 3 to 4 and 57 % of those who have child age 2 or younger . And while majorities of parents whose child uses YouTube credit the platform for entertaining and educating their children , a majority of these parents are concerned about their child being exposed to inappropriate content on the video sharing site .
Students receive the highest marks from these teachers for their ability to use appropriate and effective search queries and their understanding of how online search results are generated . Yet even for these skills , only about one-quarter of teachers surveyed here rate their students `` excellent '' or `` very good . '' Indeed , in our focus groups , many teachers suggest that despite being raised in the `` digital age , '' today 's students are surprisingly lacking in their online search skills . Students receive the lowest marks for `` patience and determination in looking for information that is hard to find , '' with 43 % of teachers rating their students `` poor '' in this regard , and another 35 % rating their students `` fair . ''
Mexican-origin Hispanics have always been the largest Hispanic-origin group in the U.S . In 1860 , for example , among the 155,000 Hispanics living in the U.S. , 81.1 % were of Mexican origin – a historic high . Since then the origins of the nation 's Hispanic population have diversified as growing numbers of immigrants from other Latin American nations and Puerto Rico settled in the U.S. For example , between 1930 and 1980 , Hispanics from places other than Mexico nearly doubled their representation among U.S. Hispanics , from 22.4 % to 40.6 % . But with the arrival of large numbers of Mexican immigrants in the 1980s and 1990s , the Mexican share among Hispanics grew , rising to a recent peak of 65.7 % in 2008 , but declining since .
The political conversation on Twitter is markedly different than that on blogs — and both are decidedly different than the political narrative presented by the mainstream press , according to a new study by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism that analyzed more than 20 million tweets , the online conversation and traditional news coverage about the campaign from May 2 through November 27 .
In 2017 , just 36 % of Republicans and Republican leaners said colleges and universities have a positive effect on the way things are going in the country , an 18-percentage-point decline from two years prior . By contrast , 72 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners said colleges and universities have a positive effect , which was little changed from prior years .
Drawn both by lower data collection costs and substantial advantages in how questionnaires can be designed and administered , survey research is rapidly moving to the Web . Adoption of the Web for data collection is occurring in all sectors of the industry from the U.S. Census Bureau , which now allows respondents to take the American Community Survey on the Web , to political polling , where the cost and difficulty of targeting phone calls geographically is prompting more organizations to rely on online polls , to the marketing research community , which has moved virtually all consumer surveys to the Web . One key factor that has made this shift possible is the fact that the vast majority of Americans now use the internet . Pew Research Center telephone surveys have documented the rise in internet adoption , which has grown from 14 % of the U.S. adult population in 1996 to 89 % today . But 89 % is not 100 % , and surveys that include only those who use the internet ( and are willing to take surveys online ) run the risk of producing biased results . How large is that risk ? This analysis documents how a wide range of common survey findings would differ if those who are unable or unwilling to take surveys online are excluded . It relies upon a series of surveys conducted over the past 15 months by Pew Research Center with its nationally representative American Trends Panel . Most members of the panel participate via the Web , while those who are unable or unwilling to take surveys online are typically interviewed by mail . By comparing the results for the full sample with those produced by the Web sample , it is possible to assess the consequences of excluding the non-internet population from surveys .
When it comes to the impact their DNA test results have had on how they view themselves , 15 % of mail-in test users say their results changed the way they think about their racial or ethnic identity . Nonwhites are twice as likely as whites to say this ( 24 % vs. 12 % ) .
People in 40 countries were surveyed last spring about eight topics and were asked whether they considered each morally acceptable , morally unacceptable , or not a moral issue . Europeans were consistently less likely to judge these things as unacceptable compared with Latin Americans , Asians , Africans and Middle Easterners . Infidelity is the one issue that draws the most opprobrium from Europeans : Across the eight EU nations polled ( Britain , Czech Republic , France , Germany , Greece , Italy , Poland , Spain ) , a median of 65 % deem extramarital affairs unacceptable . However , even on this topic , the percentage describing infidelity as unacceptable is lower in Europe than in other parts of the world . Moreover , Europe has the only country — France — where less than half believe infidelity is unacceptable . Among the French , just 47 % hold this view . In contrast , fully 84 % of Americans think extramarital affairs are morally wrong . Medians of more than 50 % in other regions believe gambling and abortion are unacceptable . In Europe , the medians are 32 % and 26 % , respectively . A median of only 20 % consider drinking alcohol immoral in Europe , compared with 41 % in the Asia/Pacific region , 42 % in Latin America , and even larger numbers in Africa ( 61 % ) and the Middle East ( 75 % ) .
Since the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville , France , the Pew Research Center has covered five summer and three winter games as part of its regular news interest surveys , in which we ask whether people are following various news events and , if so , how closely . Overall , the level of Olympics interest varies within a clear range : More than half but less than two-thirds say they 've followed that year 's Games `` very '' or `` fairly '' closely , with the average interest level slightly higher for Summer Games . ( For this exercise , we considered only surveys conducted during or shortly after the Games ; when more than one survey was conducted we took the highest interest level . ) The two exceptions were the 1996 ( Atlanta ) and 2004 ( Athens ) Summer Olympics . In 1996 , the bombing at Atlanta 's Centennial Olympic Park occurred during our initial survey period ; perhaps not surprisingly , 75 % of people said they were following the Games closely — including 45 % who said they were following them `` very '' closely , the highest interest level for any Olympics . In a follow-up survey in early September , a month after the Games concluded , interest had fallen back to 66 % . During the Athens Games , the public was evenly split between those who said they were following the Olympics very or fairly closely ( 50 % ) and those who said they were following them not too or not at all closely ( 50 % ) .
A Kaiser Health Tracking Poll conducted in October found that 65 % of Republicans would rather see their representative work to repeal and replace it compared with 33 % who favored keeping the law and working to improve it . By contrast , 86 % of Democrats want to see their representative work to improve the law while just 12 % favor scrapping it .
However , independents who lean toward the Republican and Democratic parties – unlike those who identify as partisans – hold very different views . By a 58 % -32 % margin , independents who lean Republican say that Apple should unlock the iPhone . By contrast , 55 % of Democratic leaners say Apple should not unlock the iPhone , while 34 % say that they should . Across age groups , adults ages 18 - 29 are divided over what Apple should do : 47 % say the company should unlock the iPhone , while about as many ( 43 % ) say it should not unlock the phone to ensure the privacy of its other users . Among adults age 30 and older , somewhat more say Apple should unlock rather than not unlock the San Bernardino suspect 's iPhone . By a 54 % -27 % margin , those 65 and older think Apple should unlock the phone ; 18 % do not offer a view .
With most Americans worried about the spread of infectious disease , differences among demographic groups are relatively narrow . Still , some groups register particularly high levels of concern . For example , Americans with less than a college degree are 9 percentage points more likely to be concerned about the threat of infectious disease than those who have a college degree or more education . Similarly , those who have incomes of less than $ 50,000 per year are 10 points more concerned about the threat posed by infectious diseases than those with higher incomes .
But the latest News IQ survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted March 29-April 1 among 1,000 adults , finds considerable variance in what the public knows about the parties . While 67 % correctly identify the Democratic Party as more supportive of raising taxes on higher-income people to reduce the budget deficit , far fewer ( 53 % ) identify the Republican Party as more in favor of reducing the size and scope of government .
A majority of Americans ( 55 % ) continue to say that the U.S. should take into account the interests of its allies in foreign policy , even if it means making compromises with them . Fewer say the U.S. should follow its own national interests , even when its allies strongly disagree ( 38 % ) .
Some 45 % of the public believes solar geoengineering would bring net harm to the environment , however . Three-in-ten U.S. adults think these techniques would bring net benefits to the environment and 22 % say they would have little effect on the environment .
Voter satisfaction with the choice of presidential candidates , already at a two-decade low , has declined even further . A new survey finds that just a third of registered voters say they are very or fairly satisfied with the choices , while 63 % say they are not too or not at all satisfied . That represents a 7-percentage-point drop since June in the share of voters expressing satisfaction with their candidate choices . This marks the first time in six presidential contests since 1992 that positive views of the choice of candidates have shown a significant decline over the course of the campaign ( no comparative data are available for the 2000 campaign ) . The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Aug. 23-Sept. 2 among 1,201 adults , including 947 registered voters , finds that unhappiness with this year 's choices crosses partisan lines : Just 36 % of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters , and 35 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners , say they are satisfied with their choices . In prior campaigns , voter satisfaction with the selection of candidates either increased or held steady as Election Day drew closer . At this point in the campaign four years ago , 54 % of registered voters said they were very or fairly satisfied with the choice of candidates , which was little changed from June of that year ( 56 % ) .
Though most give positive marks to hospitals and medical centers for their handling of the outbreak , 52 % of U.S. adults think the hospitals in their area will struggle to handle the number of people seeking treatment for the coronavirus over the next few months ; 47 % think they will be able to handle the number of patients . Republicans are less concerned than Democrats that hospitals will struggle to handle coronavirus caseloads , a finding in keeping with wide political differences over the degree to which the coronavirus poses a major threat to public health . Seven-in-ten of those who are very concerned about getting a case of COVID-19 that would require hospitalization believe hospitals in their area will struggle to handle patient needs over the next few months .
China is viewed as principally a military threat by slightly more than a third of Americans ( 36 % ) . If an Asian ally such as Japan , South Korea , or the Philippines were to become embroiled in a military conflict with China , most Americans ( 58 % ) would back the use of force against Beijing . Nearly two-in-three Republicans ( 65 % ) and 62 % of independents hold this view . And by a 52 % -39 % margin , Democrats also favor using force to defend an Asian ally .
Social media sites have surpassed print newspapers as a news source for Americans : One-in-five U.S. adults say they often get news via social media , slightly higher than the share who often do so from print newspapers ( 16 % ) for the first time since Pew Research Center began asking these questions . In 2017 , the portion who got news via social media was about equal to the portion who got news from print newspapers .
Trump gets his lowest ratings in Mexico . Over the past decade , U.S. presidents have gotten mixed or negative reviews in Mexico , but at 5 % , Trump registers the lowest confidence rating of any U.S. leader in Mexico since Pew Research Center began surveying there . His rating in Mexico is also the lowest among the 37 nations polled in 2017 . The proposed border wall between the U.S. and Mexico has been a high-profile position for Trump since he declared his candidacy for president , and more than nine-in-ten Mexicans oppose it . U.S. favorability has typically been higher than confidence in the American president in Mexico , and that remains the case this year – though the share of the public with a positive view of the U.S. has dropped steeply since 2015 .
The aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines is drawing less attention from the American public than a number of other major international disasters in recent years . About one-in-three Americans ( 32 % ) say they are very closely following news about the deadly typhoon that struck the Philippines on Nov. 8 . By comparison , 55 % of the public closely followed the aftermath of the 2011 tsunami in Japan , 58 % followed the tsunami that struck coastlines around the Indian Ocean at the end of 2004 , and 60 % followed the 2010 Haiti earthquake . In the new national survey , conducted Nov. 14 - 17 among 1,013 adults , Typhoon Haiyan tied with economic news as the second-most closely followed story this week . The health care rollout was the public 's top story , with 37 % following it very closely . Attention to the Philippines typhoon is similar to the levels of interest in the 2008 earthquake in China ( 30 % followed closely ) and the 2010 earthquake in Chile ( 27 % ) . Up to this point , the share of Americans making donations to the Philippines trails donations to natural disasters that got more attention : 14 % say they have donated to storm relief efforts . The share of the public that has donated so far is somewhat less than after the disasters in Haiti , Japan or the Indian Ocean .
As previous Pew Research Center surveys have shown , the partisan differences in views of women and leadership are wider than gender differences in these opinions . More than twice as many Democrats ( 82 % ) as Republicans ( 36 % ) say the record number of women who will serve in the 116th Congress – most of whom are Democrats – is a good thing . The gender gap is much more modest ; 65 % of women and 55 % of men say the highest-ever number of women in Congress is a good thing .
In a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted in January , 94 % of Democrats say they trust what Trump says less than what prior presidents said , while 58 % of Republicans say they trust what Trump says more than what prior presidents said . Similarly , nine-in-ten Democrats say the ethical standards of top Trump administration officials are poor or not good , while around three-quarters of Republicans ( 76 % ) say the administration 's ethical standards are excellent or good .
Seven-in-ten college graduates ( 70 % ) say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , as do 60 % of those with some college education . A slim majority of those with a high school degree or less education share this opinion : 54 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 44 % say it should be illegal in all or most cases .
Roughly half of Americans ( 51 % ) say the U.S. has a responsibility to accept refugees into the country , while 43 % say it does not , the national survey found . That is changed only slightly from February of last year .
The phrase `` spiritual but not religious '' has become widely used in recent years by some Americans who are trying to describe their religious identity . While Pew Research Center does not categorize survey respondents in such a way , our surveys do find that the U.S. public overall appears to be growing a bit less religious – but also somewhat more spiritual . Americans have become less religious in recent years by standard measures such as how important they say religion is to them and their frequency of religious service attendance and prayer . But , at the same time , the share of people across a wide variety of religious identities who say they often feel a deep sense of spiritual peace and well-being as well as a deep sense of wonder about the universe has risen .
Americans are more likely to prioritize greater cooperation with Germany than Germans are to prioritize increased cooperation with the U.S. About seven-in-ten in the U.S. ( 69 % ) want more cooperation with Germany , compared with half of Germans ( 50 % ) who want more cooperation with the U.S . Instead , Germans are most likely to say they want greater cooperation with France ( 77 % ) and Japan ( 69 % ) among the countries tested . Germans are much more likely than Americans to say they want more cooperation with Russia ( 66 % vs. 35 % ) . And 52 % of Americans want to cooperate less with Russia .
Views of the economy are closely associated with party affiliation and where people stand on the political spectrum , less so the EU referendum vote . The British public was roughly divided on their views of the economy , with 49 % saying that the economic situation is bad in the UK and 50 % saying that it is good . Positive views were concentrated among Conservative supporters and those on the political right , with a slimmer majority among `` leave '' voters . Negative views predominated among those who voted `` remain '' ( 60 % ) , supporters of Labour ( 60 % ) and people on the political left ( 69 % ) .
Americans have little confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping , but Republicans are especially critical . Overall , around three-quarters of Americans ( 77 % ) have little or no confidence in President Xi to do the right thing in world affairs , including 55 % who have no confidence at all in the Chinese leader . The share with no faith in Xi has increased by 10 points over the past four months and is more than double the share who said this in 2019 . While Republicans and Democrats were equally likely to lack confidence in the Chinese leader in 2018 and 2019 , there is a now a partisan gap : Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say they have little or no faith in Xi ( 82 % vs. 75 % ) . Republicans are also more likely to say they have no confidence at all in Xi ( 61 % vs. 51 % ) .
Women are more likely than men to cite protection – rather than recreation – as the only reason they own a gun . Male and female gun owners are about equally likely to cite protection as a reason why they own guns : About nine-in-ten in each group say this is a reason , and 65 % and 71 % , respectively , say it is a major reason . But far larger shares of women than men who own guns say protection is the only reason they own a gun : About a quarter of women who own guns ( 27 % ) are in this category , compared with just 8 % of men .
Age is another strong , independent predictor for use of Twitter and other status updating services . Internet users age 18 - 44 report rapid uptake of Twitter over the last nine months , whereas internet users ages 45 and older report slower adoption rates . For example , 37 % of internet users age 18 - 24 use Twitter or another service , up from 19 % in December 2008 .
On other international issues that have emerged in the 2016 campaign – including views of Israel and the Palestinians and policies to address the threat from ISIS – there also are differences between partisans and candidates ' supporters . As has been the case for nearly four decades , more Americans say they sympathize more with Israel ( 54 % ) than the Palestinians ( 19 % ) . About one-in-ten ( 13 % ) volunteer that they side with neither Israel nor the Palestinians in their dispute , while 3 % sympathize with both sides . The Democrats ' differences over Israel and the Palestinians are reflected in the way Sanders and Clinton supporters view the situation . Far more Clinton supporters sympathize with Israel ( 47 % ) than the Palestinians ( 27 % ) . Sanders backers are statistically divided , with 39 % sympathizing more with the Palestinians and 33 % more with Israel . Overwhelming shares of GOP voters side with Israel , regardless of which candidate they support .
In the economic realm , most see rewards and opportunities going primarily to those at the top . Majorities in all three nations say the gap between rich and poor has increased over the past five years . And when asked why so many people lack jobs in their country , the top reason given is that many jobs go only to people with connections .
The share of Americans with confidence in scientists to act in the public interest has increased since 2016 . Public confidence in scientists to act in the public interest tilts positive and has increased over the past few years . As of 2019 , 35 % of Americans report a great deal of confidence in scientists to act in the public interest , up from 21 % in 2016 .
But Americans appear to be growing more skeptical of how much of a difference churches and other houses of worship make in tackling social concerns . A majority of U.S. adults still say religious institutions contribute either `` a great deal '' ( 19 % ) or `` some '' ( 38 % ) to solving important social problems . But the combined figure of 58 % has fallen significantly in recent years , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . About four-in-ten Americans ( 39 % ) now say religious institutions make little to no contribution in this area . When the same question was asked in July 2012 , roughly two-thirds of respondents ( 65 % ) said churches and other houses of worship played at least some role in solving society 's dilemmas . Four years before that , in August 2008 , fully three-quarters of Americans ( 75 % ) said religious institutions contributed `` a great deal '' or `` some '' in this way .
The survey also shows that roughly eight-in-ten evangelical Protestants ( 79 % ) have a favorable view of the Israeli people , as do seven-in-ten mainline Protestants and about two-thirds of Catholics . People in all three groups are far more likely to say they have a favorable view of the Israeli people than they are to say the same of the Palestinian people . By contrast , religiously unaffiliated people and those in the historically black Protestant tradition are more ambivalent toward Israelis . Those in both of these groups feel about as warmly toward the Palestinian people as they do toward the Israeli people . ( The survey did not include enough interviews with Jews to analyze their views on these questions , because the questions were only asked of half the sample . ) Among all the religious groups analyzed in the survey , the Israeli and Palestinian governments are rated less favorably than the Israeli and Palestinian people . Still , the survey finds the same basic patterns : Evangelicals , mainline Protestants and Catholics are each much more favorably inclined toward the Israeli government than the Palestinian government , while religious `` nones '' and those in the historically black Protestant tradition view the two governments similarly .
This year more Hispanics in Florida are registered as Democrats ( 513,252 ) than as Republicans ( 445,526 ) . As recently as 2006 , the reverse was true : among Latino registered voters in Florida , more were Republican ( 414,185 ) than Democratic ( 369,906 ) .
On the eve of the New Hampshire primary , Republican voters continue to express mixed views of the party 's presidential field . Roughly half ( 51 % ) of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters say the candidates are excellent or good , while 44 % say they are only fair or poor .
When it comes to the issues at the forefront of voters ' minds , the economy tops the list , with 84 % of voters – and similar shares across most demographic and political groups – saying it is very important to their vote . Terrorism also ranks high across the political spectrum .
In the 2018 general election , around six-in-ten U.S. poll workers ( 58 % ) were ages 61 and older , including roughly a quarter ( 27 % ) who were over 70 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data from that year 's Election Administration and Voting Survey ( EAVS ) , a biennial study of states ' administration of federal elections . ( This data does not include all states ; for more information about the methodology and limitations of this data , see `` How we did this . '' )
Americans ' views about the trade-off between security and personal privacy have shifted over time and public opinion is often influenced by major news events . Following the San Bernardino and Paris attacks , 56 % of Americans said they were more concerned that counterterrorism efforts had not gone far enough to protect the country , while just 28 % said they were concerned that efforts have gone too far in restricting civil liberties . By contrast , after the Edward Snowden leaks in 2013 , concerns over civil liberties were more prevalent than concerns for national security .
A majority ( 57 % ) of Americans favor removing U.S. troops from Afghanistan as soon as possible , while 35 % say that U.S. troops should remain until the situation there is stabilized . These opinions are little changed since June 2011 , but support for an immediate troop withdrawal continues to be much higher than it was two years ago ( 40 % in June 2010 ) . ( Note : This survey was conducted before the killing of 16 Afghanistan civilians by a U.S. Army soldier was reported on March 11 . )
But it 's not the only time they do so . A large majority of Americans ( 78 % ) feel a strong sense of gratitude or thankfulness on a weekly basis , according to a new poll by the Pew Research Center . And only 6 % of Americans say they seldom or never experience these feelings . That being said , some groups are more likely than others to express gratitude . For example , 84 % of women regularly feel a strong sense of gratitude or thankfulness , compared to 72 % of men . And nearly nine-in-ten Mormons , Jehovah 's Witnesses and evangelical Protestants – traditionally some of the most observant religious groups – say they feel gratitude or thankfulness at least once a week .
At the same time , people in many countries worry about people leaving their home for jobs in other countries . Among surveyed nations , Greece and Spain – two countries that have seen significant numbers of people move abroad in recent years – have the highest shares of people who say this is a very or moderately big problem ( 89 % and 88 % , respectively ) .
Aside from gas prices , news about the Iraq war continued to draw considerable public interest . A third followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely , while 23 % said it was the story they followed most closely . In addition , 30 % paid very close attention to the debate in Washington over U.S. policy in Iraq , and 10 % said this was the story they followed most closely . More than a quarter of the public paid very close attention to the debate in Congress over new immigration policy , and 12 % listed this as their top story . Hispanics followed this story slightly more closely than did non-Hispanics ( 34 % vs. 26 % very closely ) . Republicans and Democrats followed the story in roughly equal proportions . The media devoted 10 % of its coverage overall to the immigration debate , putting it on a par with the Iraq policy debate and events on the ground in Iraq . The 2008 presidential campaign drew very close attention from 22 % of the public . This was the fourth-ranked story in terms of public interest . The national news media devoted 6 % of its coverage for the week to the campaign . The bulk of the coverage was on television and radio . The campaign was not a top ten story last week for newspapers or online news sources . The recent violence in Lebanon between militant groups and the Lebanese army received as much news coverage as the presidential campaign and more coverage than rising gas prices ( 6 % overall ) . This was the second most covered story online , with online sources devoting 15 % of their coverage to the conflict . However , the public paid relatively little attention to the events in Lebanon ; just 15 % followed the story very closely and 2 % said it was the story they followed most closely last week .
The vast majority of Democrats ( 90 % ) believe the U.S. should prioritize alternative energy development over expanded oil , coal and natural gas exploration and production . While generally supportive of prioritizing alternative energy sources , Republicans differ by ideology and generation , and more modestly by gender , in their views of U.S. energy supply priorities .
Nonetheless , the devastating event of the U.S. dropping atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945 has long divided Americans and Japanese . Today , 56 % of Americans believe the use of nuclear weapons was justified ; 34 % say it was not . In Japan , only 14 % say the bombing was justified versus 79 % who say it was not .
As has historically been the case in Pew Research Center polling , older people tend to have more negative opinions of China than younger people . About half of 18- to 29-year-olds ( 49 % ) express an unfavorable view of China , compared with 58 % of those ages 30 to 49 and two-thirds of people 50 and older ( 67 % ) . People with at least a four-year college degree are also more negative toward China ( 69 % ) than those who have not completed college ( 57 % ) .
When it comes to how Maduro is handling various aspects of his job , Venezuelans offer harsh criticism . Maduro 's worst issue ratings are on inflation ( 86 % disapprove ) and crime ( 85 % ) . Reports indicate an increase in the country 's crime rates , which some attribute to the shortages of basic goods plaguing the country . Roughly eight-in-ten also give Maduro poor marks for his handling of corruption ( 83 % ) and unemployment ( 80 % ) . And 77 % disapprove of how he is dealing with political opposition .
While China 's government may be officially communist , the Chinese people express widespread support for capitalism . Roughly three-quarters of the Chinese ( 76 % ) agree that most people are better off in a free market economy . And since 2002 , the Chinese have consistently been one of the strongest proponents of capitalism compared with other publics around the world , even more so than Americans and Western Europeans .
Nearly one-third—31 % —of people say they have deserted a particular news outlet because it no longer provides the news and information they had grown accustomed to , according to the survey of more than 2,000 U.S. adults in early 2013 . And those most likely to have walked away are better educated , wealthier and older than those who did not . In other words , they are people who tend to be most prone to consume and pay for news . ( In the survey , the `` news outlet '' was not confined to one segment of the media but could have been print , television , online or on other platforms ) .
Women are more likely than men ( 71 % vs. 60 % ) to see allegations of sexual misconduct as mainly reflective of broad societal problems . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 70 % ) are also somewhat more likely to say this than Republicans and Republican leaners ( 61 % ) .
While few teens say the primary way they connect with new friends is through phone calls , teens are more likely to talk with their closest friends by phone . Teens with close friends also provided their top three ways of reaching these friends . Text messaging was again the most popular , with 80 % of teens naming it as one of their top three choices and 49 % saying it is the most common way they keep in touch . But phone calls are second : 69 % of teens cite phone calls as one of their top choices for talking with their best friends , including 13 % who say it 's their most common way of keeping in touch .
Online radio listening in cars , such as listening to AM/FM stations online or streaming other online audio , remained steady after years of increase . In 2019 , 41 % of Americans ages 12 and older have ever listened to online radio in a car using a phone , up from just 5 % in 2010 .
In the earlier survey , partisan differences in opinions about diversity were similar to the current gaps in views of whether America being open to people from around the world is essential . Seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 70 % ) said greater diversity made the U.S. a better place to live , compared with about half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 47 % ) .
Asians make up 43 % of immigrant eligible voters in California , the highest of any racial or ethnic group . Nationally , Latinos make up a higher share of immigrant eligible voters than Asians ( 34 % vs. 31 % ) , but the reverse is true in the Golden State , where many Latino immigrants are ineligible to vote because they do not hold U.S. citizenship .
Overall , the percentage of the public that is looking forward to this fall 's midterm election is about the same today ( 51 % ) as it was in January 2010 ( 50 % ) . Currently , 63 % of Republicans and 53 % of Democrats say they are anticipating the midterm elections ; a similar gap was evident four years ago ( 60 % of Republicans vs. 48 % of Democrats ) .
Venezuela is the only Latin American country surveyed in which economic worries match the level of concern over climate change . A majority of Venezuelans ( 56 % ) name the condition of the global economy as a major threat , virtually tied with the 55 % who say the same about climate change . In five of the six remaining Latin American nations surveyed , the condition of the world economy ranks as the second-greatest threat .
About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they very closely followed news about the current situation and events in Iraq ; 5 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about Iraq accounted for 1 % of the newshole . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they very closely followed news about the European financial bailout , just about matching the 22 % that say they followed Kagan 's nomination very closely . Just 3 % say the European bailout was the news they followed most closely ; this story made up 5 % of coverage . Fewer than one-in-ten ( 8 % ) say they very closely followed news about David Cameron , leader of Great Britain 's Conservative Party , becoming the nation 's prime minister ; 1 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the change in power in Britain accounted for 2 % of the newshole .
Open access to data and independent review of research increase public confidence in research findings . The survey asked respondents about four factors that could affect their trust in research findings . More than half of Americans ( 57 % ) say they trust research findings more if the data from the study is openly available to the public , and 52 % say they trust research findings more if they have been reviewed by an independent committee . In contrast , a majority of Americans ( 58 % ) say industry funding makes them trust scientific findings less . The influence of government funding on public trust is less clear : About a quarter ( 23 % ) say it makes the findings more trustworthy , 28 % say it makes findings less trustworthy and about half ( 48 % ) say it makes no difference .
But there is less criticism of Cruz and Kasich among the other 's supporters than there is of Trump . Only 25 % of Kasich supporters say Cruz would be a poor or terrible president , while just 17 % of Cruz supporters say this about Kasich .
Americans are divided over whether restricting legal gun ownership would lead to fewer mass shootings . Debates over the nation 's gun laws have often followed recent mass shootings . But Americans are split over whether legal changes would lead to fewer mass shootings , according to a fall 2018 poll . Nearly half of adults ( 47 % ) say there would be fewer mass shootings if it was harder for people to obtain guns legally , while a similar share ( 46 % ) says there would be no difference . Very few ( 6 % ) say there would be more mass shootings if it was harder for people to obtain guns legally .
Generation X , Millennials and the post-Millennial generation make up a clear majority of voting-eligible adults in the United States , but if past midterm election turnout patterns hold true , they are unlikely to cast the majority of votes this November . Not only are younger adults less likely to participate in midterm elections , but Millennials and Gen Xers have a track record of low turnout in midterms compared with older generations when they were the same age . As of April 2018 ( the most recent data available ) , 59 % of adults who are eligible to vote are Gen Xers , Millennials or `` post-Millennials . '' In the 2014 midterm election , which had a historically low turnout , these younger generations accounted for 53 % of eligible voters but cast just 36 million votes – 21 million fewer than the Boomer , Silent and Greatest generations , who are ages 54 and older in 2018 .
The Center 's recent analysis of long-term trends in voter identification finds that Democrats have made gains among college graduates , while less educated voters are now more divided in their affiliation . In surveys conducted so far this year , the Democratic Party currently holds a 53 % to 41 % advantage in leaned party identification among voters with a college degree or more . In 1992 , the GOP held a slight 49 % -45 % edge among college graduates . Over the same period , the Democratic Party has lost ground among less educated voters . The balance of leaned party identification is now even among voters who do not have a college degree ( 46 % each ) ; as recently as 2008 , Democrats had a 14-point advantage among this group ( 52 % -38 % ) .
Modi and the BJP enjoy overwhelming support among men and women , from people of all ages , educational backgrounds and income levels , and among people in rural and urban areas . Even a majority of backers of the rival Indian National Congress party ( INC ) express a positive view of Modi and the BJP .
Assessments of the law over the coming years vary widely by income as well . People with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more say the tax law 's personal impact will be more positive than negative . Those with lower incomes have less favorable expectations for the law . Nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) of those with incomes of at least $ 100,000 say the law will have a mostly positive personal impact , while just 20 % expect negative effects ( 35 % say it will not have much effect ) . Among those with incomes of $ 75,000- $ 99,999 , 44 % say the law 's personal impact will be mostly positive compared with 19 % who say it will be mostly negative ; 30 % expect not much of an effect .
Although our polls have found broad public unhappiness with the tax system , tax reform has not ranked high on the list of the publics ' priorities in our surveys . Our last in-depth look at the subject , in a 2011 survey , found that while majorities of Republicans ( 60 % ) and Democrats ( 55 % ) agree there is so much wrong with the system that Congress should change it , they come at the issue with very different perspectives . Democrats overwhelmingly ( 73 % ) point to the share wealthy people pay as the biggest concern , while many Republicans ( 42 % ) identify the complexity of the system as the biggest problem .
A sharp decrease in the share of mothers with four or more children has played a role in the long-term decline in larger families , according to the Census Bureau data . In 1976 , four-in-ten moms in their early 40s had given birth to four or more children . But by 2016 , the share had shrunk to just 15 % . The three-child family , by contrast , has held relatively constant : In both 1976 and 2016 , roughly a quarter of mothers ages 40 to 44 had given birth to three children .
An overwhelming majority in Nigeria have an unfavorable opinion of Boko Haram , the terrorist group that has been wreaking havoc in the northern regions of the country , including a high profile kidnapping of hundreds of female schoolchildren during the early stages of fieldwork for this survey . Overall , 82 % of Nigerians have an unfavorable view of Boko Haram ( which loosely translates as `` Western education is sin '' ) , including 79 % of whom have a very unfavorable view . Negative opinions are shared by Muslims ( 80 % ) and Christians ( 83 % ) alike . Only 10 % of Nigerians have a favorable view of the group . Support is little changed from 2013 .
In mid-January 49 % said that their top story was news about the shooting rampage in Tucson , Ariz. , that left six dead and Rep. Gabrielle Giffords fighting for her life . One month later , 48 % said they were most closely following news about the dramatic uprising in Egypt and the resignation of President Hosni Mubarak . While 42 % cite bin Laden 's killing as their top story of the week , half of the public ( 50 % ) says they followed this news very closely . That ranks this news among the top stories of 2011 so far by this metric . It also is greater than the 44 % that said they followed news about the capture of Saddam Hussein in Iraq very closely in December 2003 . By this measure , the Japan disaster and the rising price of gas and oil attracted the highest interest ( 55 % very closely in mid-March for Japan , 53 % for rising prices in April ) . Other top stories have been the Arizona shootings in January ( 49 % ) and the nation 's economy ( 49 % in February ) .
In the August survey , 36 % of all adults approve of the way Trump is handling his job as president , including 26 % who say they strongly approve . But among those who say white people do not benefit at all from advantages that black people do not have , 74 % approve of Trump , with 60 % approving strongly . Among those who say white people do not benefit too much from advantages that blacks do not have , a smaller majority ( 57 % ) approve of Trump 's job performance , including 39 % who strongly approve .
A third reason that Latinos may not vote in large numbers relative to their population in the 2016 elections is that few states with large Hispanic populations are likely to be key battlegrounds . In presidential elections , candidates often focus their outreach efforts in these states , raising the chances that a voter may be contacted and possibly turn out to vote . For example , the Latino-rich states of California , Texas and New York are not likely to be presidential tossup states . Together , these three account for 52 % of all Latino eligible voters in 2016 . Yet , Florida , Nevada and Colorado are likely to once again be battleground states in the race for president . In each of the three , Hispanics make up more than 14 % of eligible voters . But in just about every other state expected to have close presidential races , Hispanics make up less than 5 % of all eligible voters .
When it comes to whether it 's acceptable for a black person to use the N-word , about four-in-ten adults ( 38 % ) say they personally find it never acceptable . This includes similar shares of whites and blacks .
At the same time , there has been a substantial drop in the public 's ratings of the government 's efforts to reduce terrorism . Though a 56 % majority says the government is doing very well or fairly well , this is a 16-point decline from last November . About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say the government is doing not too well or not at all well , which nears the post-9/11 high of 44 % in early 2007 .
A median of 60 % across the member countries say the U.S. would use military force to defend a NATO country that was subject to a Russian incursion . Only 29 % across these countries believe the U.S. would not defend the country that was attacked .
This chart shows the proportion of workers who are unauthorized migrants in a selection among the CPS ' 27 `` detailed occupation groups '' . The major occupations shown are those where the proportion of unauthorized migrants exceeds the proportion in the workforce ( 4.3 % ) . This chart shows the distribution of unauthorized migrants across industries by combinations of the CPS ' 14 `` major industry groups '' for those migrants who are in the labor force . The specific groups shown are those where the distribution of unauthorized workers approximates or exceeds the distribution of natives . The concentration of unauthorized workers in broad industries is not as marked as the concentration in broad occupation groups . Only in `` leisure & hospitality '' and in `` construction '' does the share of unauthorized workers greatly exceed the share of natives . Somewhat greater than 1 in 6 unauthorized workers is in the the leisure & hospitality industry ( 18 % ) or the construction industry ( 17 % ) . Only about 7 % –8 % of native workers is in each of these industries . Neither of these industries tends to require credentials from prospective workers . Further , there are many occupations in these industries that do not require much in the way of education .
Even before this week 's terrorist bombing at a pop concert in Manchester , England , people across Europe and in the U.S. and Canada had pervasive concerns about the threat of extremism in their countries . Across 12 countries surveyed from February through April by Pew Research Center , majorities said they were at least somewhat concerned about extremism in the name of Islam in their countries , including 79 % who said this in the UK itself . And across the 10 EU countries surveyed , a median of 79 % were concerned about Islamic extremism , while only 21 % were not concerned . In many of the countries polled this year , much of the public is very concerned about extremism in the name of Islam . This includes 50 % in Italy and Spain , 47 % in Germany , 46 % in France and 43 % in the UK . Meanwhile , less than 15 % of the population in all these countries is not at all concerned about the threat of extremism in the name of Islam .
Opinions of Cuba vary sharply by ideological self-identification in Venezuela . Those Venezuelans who place themselves on the left side of the ideological spectrum are much more likely to have a favorable view of Cuba ( 79 % ) than those who place themselves on the right side of the spectrum ( 25 % ) .
The U.S. receives higher favorable ratings in Africa than in any other region . Our 2015 survey found mostly positive ratings for the U.S. around the globe , but they were especially high in Africa – across the nine nations surveyed in the region , a median of 79 % expressed a favorable opinion of the U.S. , while just 10 % had an unfavorable view . Obama is very popular in Africa . Big majorities in all nine African nations surveyed express confidence in him , including 80 % of Kenyans and 65 % of Ethiopians . Obama 's predecessor , George W. Bush , also received mostly positive ratings in the region , and the rise in anti-Americanism that occurred in many parts of the world during the Bush era was largely absent in Africa .
Over the past 50 years , the highest-earning 20 % of U.S. households have steadily brought in a larger share of the country 's total income . In 2018 , households in the top fifth of earners ( with incomes of $ 130,001 or more that year ) brought in 52 % of all U.S. income , more than the lower four-fifths combined , according to Census Bureau data . In 1968 , by comparison , the top-earning 20 % of households brought in 43 % of the nation 's income , while those in the lower four income quintiles accounted for 56 % .
Americans have limited confidence in President Xi On balance , Chinese President Xi Jinping receives negative ratings from the American public . Half of U.S. adults surveyed say they have little or no confidence in the Chinese leader , while 37 % have at least some confidence . This is little changed from 2018 but has increased 9 percentage points since the question was first asked in 2014 .
The vast majority of immigrant families and unaccompanied minors apprehended on the U.S.-Mexico border come from Mexico or the Northern Triangle region ( El Salvador , Guatemala and Honduras ) . ( In December 2018 , 95 % of apprehended family members were from the Northern Triangle . ) And in recent years , there have been more overall apprehensions of non-Mexicans than Mexicans at U.S. borders , reflecting a decline in the number of unauthorized Mexican immigrants coming to the U.S. over the past decade .
While the national media focused almost exclusively on election-related news last week , the public continued to keep close track of economic news . Fully 54 % followed news about the economy very closely and another 31 % followed fairly closely . Roughly three-in-ten ( 29 % ) listed the economy as their most closely followed news story . According to Pew 's PEJ , the media devoted 7 % of its overall coverage to the economic crisis . Americans also paid close attention to the nation 's rising unemployment rate . Fully 39 % followed the latest unemployment reports very closely and another 32 % paid fairly close attention to this story . Interest in unemployment news was significantly higher than in June of this year , amid reports of widespread job losses .
There are some modest demographic differences in how often Americans talk about the outbreak . Women are more likely than men ( 47 % vs. 41 % ) to say they talk about it most or almost all of the time , as are black adults ( 52 % ) when compared with Hispanic ( 46 % ) and white adults ( 42 % ) . Older people appear to be at higher risk from the virus , but they are less likely than younger Americans to talk about it frequently : Among those ages 65 and older , 38 % say they talk about it most or almost all of the time , lower than the shares in all other age groups . Education and partisan identification are also linked to how often Americans talk about the virus . Half of college graduates say they talk about it with others most or all of the time , but the share falls to 43 % among those with some college education and 39 % among those with a high school diploma or less .
One example of an enduring difference across the current generations is their racial and ethnic composition . Millennials are the most diverse adult generation : 57 % are non-Hispanic whites , while 21 % are Hispanic , 13 % are black and 6 % are Asian . Each older generation is less diverse . Non-Hispanic whites make up 61 % of Generation X , 72 % of Baby Boomers and 78 % of the Silent generation .
Public assessments of the nation 's economy have slipped considerably since last month . More than eight-in-ten Americans ( 81 % ) now say the economy is in fair or poor shape , and fewer than one-in-five Americans ( 17 % ) rate it as excellent or good , a nine point drop from the 26 % who offered that view in January . Negative ratings of the economy have reached levels comparable to those seen during the recessions of the early 1990s and early years of the current decade .
Young adults are especially likely to use their mobile phones to keep themselves occupied while watching television , as nearly three quarters of all cell owners ages 18 - 24 ( 73 % ) used their cell phone in this manner recently . But while this behavior is especially common among the youngest cell owners , a majority of 25 - 34 year olds and just under half of those in their mid-30s to mid-40s have done this recently .
Most women ( 71 % ) say it is more difficult to be a mother today than it was 20 or 30 years ago . But in Pew 's 1997 motherhood survey , an even greater percentage of women expressed this view ( 81 % ) .
As the current chair of the G20 and host of the organization 's upcoming Leaders ' Summit , Russia has asserted itself on the world stage . Yet , in the court of public opinion , Russia gets a mixed verdict . In a global survey by the Pew Research Center , a median of just 36 % among publics in 38 nations express a favorable view of Russia , compared with 39 % who hold an unfavorable view , and 19 % who do not offer an opinion . By contrast , the same survey found the international image of the U.S. to be much more positive , with a median of 63 % expressing a favorable view of America .
The Chinese ( 89 % ) , Vietnamese ( 87 % ) and Germans ( 85 % ) feel the best about their country 's economic situation . And they have reason to feel positive . China 's economy is expected to grow by 7.4 % this year and Vietnam 's by 5.6 % , according to the IMF . The Greeks ( 2 % ) and Italians ( 3 % ) are the most downbeat about current economic conditions . Again , this is hardly surprising . Italy fell back into recession in the first half of 2014 and Greece 's economy continued to shrink .
Democratic and Republican views of Russia followed similar trajectories – until Trump 's election . For many years , Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents had slightly more favorable views of Russia than Republicans and GOP leaners , and opinions in both groups moved downward in tandem . After Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 , for example , opinions dropped substantially among members of both parties . Following Trump 's election in 2016 , however , favorable opinions of Russia more than doubled among Republicans , while Democrats ' views were mostly unchanged . In the Center 's latest survey , the share of Republicans with a positive view of Russia fell to 27 % , but it was still above the share of Democrats with a favorable view ( 16 % ) .
The bridge collapse in Minneapolis that killed five people and raised concerns about infrastructure safety nationwide surpassed all other news stories last week both in public interest and media coverage . Nearly half ( 48 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely last week , far exceeding interest in Iraq , the week 's next most closely followed story ( 17 % most closely ) .
The pattern plays out in reverse when it comes to the perceived susceptibility of scientists to bias . Roughly two-thirds of Republicans with high science knowledge ( 64 % ) say scientists are just as likely to be biased as other people , compared with 42 % of those with low science knowledge . In contrast , Democrats with low , medium and high science knowledge are all about equally likely to think scientists are susceptible to bias ( 34 % to 39 % ) .
And nearly identical shares say conservative Christians ( 52 % ) and lobbyists in Washington , D.C. ( 36 % ) will gain influence in Trump 's presidency as said that about the Bush administration ( 51 % and 35 % , respectively ) . Far fewer thought conservative Christians and lobbyists would gain under Obama ( 21 % each ) . As noted , however , smaller shares expect children to gain influence in Trump 's presidency than said that about Obama , Bush or Clinton before they took office . This also is the case in perceptions of how older people will fare . Currently , just 27 % think older people will gain influence with Trump as president , while 35 % say they will lose influence and 36 % say they will not be affected .
But while Millennials are not as religious as older Americans by some measures of religious observance , they are as likely to engage in many spiritual practices . For instance , like older Americans , more than four-in-ten of these younger adults ( 46 % ) say they feel a deep sense of wonder about the universe at least once a week . Likewise , most also say they think about the meaning and purpose of life on a weekly basis ( 55 % ) , again , similar to older generations . Roughly three-quarters of Millennials feel a strong sense of gratitude or thankfulness at least weekly ( 76 % ) . And 51 % say they feel a deep sense of spiritual peace and well-being at least once a week .
How do social media users participate in news ? Half of social network site users have shared news stories , images or videos , and nearly as many ( 46 % ) have discussed a news issue or event . In addition to sharing news on social media , a small number are also covering the news themselves , by posting photos or videos of news events . Pew Research found that in 2014 , 14 % of social media users posted their own photos of news events to a social networking site , while 12 % had posted videos . This practice has played a role in a number of recent breaking news events , including the riots in Ferguson , Mo .
Nearly a year into Donald Trump 's presidency , a majority of Americans ( 60 % ) say his election has led to worse race relations in the United States . Just 8 % say Trump 's election has led to better race relations , while 30 % say it has not made a difference . Shortly after Trump 's victory last year , voters had less negative expectations for how his election would affect race relations . In November 2016 , nearly half ( 46 % ) said it would lead to worse race relations , while 25 % expected his election to lead to improved race relations ( another 26 % expected little change ) .
Virtually all Republicans and Republican leaners in 2015 who supported the tea party in 2014 or 2015 continued to align with the party as of 2018 : 71 % identified with the GOP , while another 26 % leaned toward the Republican Party . And while it 's relatively rare for partisans to switch parties at all , this was more common among the subset of Republicans who had disagreed with the tea party or had no opinion . Among the small subset of those who identified with or leaned to the GOP in late 2015 and had disagreed with the tea party in 2014 or 2015 , 15 % identified as Democrats or leaned Democratic in 2018 . A similar share ( 16 % ) of those who had expressed no opinion of the tea party in 2014 or 2015 had switched loyalties to the Democratic Party by 2018 .
And , after several months of relentlessly bad news about the spreading spill , the possibility of a positive development appears to have registered with the public . Close to half ( 48 % ) say they have been hearing a mix of good and bad news about the situation in the Gulf , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted July 15 - 18 among 1,003 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Only 18 % say they have been hearing mostly good news , while 31 % say they have been hearing mostly bad news .
Income inequality in the U.S. is greatest among Asians . Asians near the top of the income ladder earned 10.7 times as much as Asians near the bottom in 2016 , a ratio that has nearly doubled since 1970 . Asians have displaced blacks as the most economically divided racial or ethnic group in the U.S . Overall , Americans near the top of the income ladder had 8.7 times as much income as those near the bottom in 2016 .
Religion is central to the identity of European Muslims . With the exception of Muslims in France , they tend to identify themselves primarily as Muslim rather than as British , Spanish , or German . In France , Muslims are split almost evenly on this question . The level of Muslim identification in Britain , Spain , and Germany is similar to that in Pakistan , Nigeria , and Jordan , and even higher than levels in Egypt , Turkey , and Indonesia . By contrast the general populations in Western Europe are far more secular in outlook . Roughly six-in-ten in Spain , Germany , and Britain identify primarily with their country rather than their religion , as do more than eight-in-ten in France . Americans , however , split about evenly on this question : 42 % say they first think of themselves as Christians versus 48 % who think of themselves primarily as Americans – a divide close to that found among French Muslims .
Most Republicans and their leaners say abortion should be illegal ( 62 % ) in all or most cases , with a larger share saying it should be illegal in most cases ( 45 % ) than in all cases ( 17 % ) . Republicans who live in the Northeast and those who identify as moderate or liberal are less likely than other Republicans to say abortion should be illegal in all cases . Democrats , for their part , are more unified in support of legal abortion than Republicans are against it , with 82 % of Democrats saying abortion should be legal all or most of the time . But Democrats are roughly split on whether it should be legal in all cases ( 40 % ) or most cases ( 42 % ) . Democrats who live in the South , those who are ages 65 and older , and those who identify as conservative or moderate are less likely than other Democrats to say abortion should be legal in all cases .
In a year in which big tech companies faced growing scrutiny , nine-in-ten Republicans – and around six-in-ten Democrats ( 59 % ) – said it 's likely that social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints . Overall , around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 73 % ) said in June that it 's very or somewhat likely that social media sites censor political viewpoints they find objectionable . In late May , Twitter began labeling tweets by Trump as misleading , prompting the president and some of his supporters to accuse social media platforms of censoring conservative voices .
Among Democrats , former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Kamala Harris are followed by similar shares of users . But among Republicans , a substantially larger share follows Trump than follows Vice President Mike Pence . And although relatively small shares of users follow candidates from the other party , nearly one-in-five Democrats ( 18 % ) follow at least one account associated with Trump – comparable to the shares who follow each member of the Democratic presidential ticket .
The Iraq war was the news story the public followed most closely last week . Nearly a third of the public ( 32 % ) followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely and 25 % listed this as the story they followed most closely . The percentage of Americans following the war has remained remarkably steady throughout the year . The national news media devoted 10 % of its overall coverage to events in Iraq last week and 5 % to the Iraq policy debate . Coverage of the Iraq policy debate declined sharply from the previous week when Gen. Petraeus ' report to Congress and Bush 's prime-time address made it the top news story . Public interest in the story remained unchanged from the previous week : 25 % followed the Iraq policy debate very closely and 9 % said this was the story they followed most closely .
Roughly four-in-ten Americans ( 37 % ) say they have ever used Instagram online or on their cellphone , according to a survey conducted in January and February of 2019 . The share of U.S. adults who say they have ever used the site has grown from 9 % in 2012 , when the Center first began asking about the platform . At the time of the survey , though Instagram had grown to be one of the more popular online platforms in the United States , most Americans still did not use it , unlike the two most popular social media platforms – YouTube and Facebook – which were used by majorities of U.S. adults ( 73 % and 69 % , respectively ) .
Terrorism has declined a major national problem among members of both parties , especially Republicans . Republicans are nearly 30 points less likely to view terrorism as a very big problem than two years ago ( 38 % now , 66 % then ) . There has been a smaller decline in the share of Democrats saying this ( 31 % now , 42 % then ) .
People attribute new cases of the coronavirus to a mix of factors . Majorities say that COVID-19 's spreading more easily than other infectious diseases ( 68 % ) , not enough testing available for coronavirus ( 58 % ) and not enough people following social distancing measures ( 57 % ) are major reasons the U.S. is seeing new cases of the coronavirus .
China and India make the list mainly because of their large populations . Currently centenarians make up a very small share , proportionally , of these relatively young countries . But they make up a larger share of the total populations of rapidly aging Japan and Italy . Today , there are 4.8 centenarians for every 10,000 people in Japan and 4.1 in Italy .
On the other hand , more find it unacceptable than acceptable for social media companies to monitor users ' posts for signs of depression so they can identify people who are at risk of self-harm and connect them to counseling services ( 45 % vs. 27 % ) . The same pattern arises when it comes to companies that make smart speakers sharing audio recordings of customers with law enforcement to help with criminal investigations : 49 % say this it is unacceptable , while 25 % find it acceptable .
In many countries outside the European Union , views of the EU have become more favorable in recent years . The share of people with a positive view has significantly increased since 2013 in Ukraine , Israel , the Philippines , Lebanon , Turkey , South Korea , Argentina and Mexico . ( The difference in Ukraine may be , in part , a result of changes in sampling after the Russian invasion of eastern Ukraine . For example , Crimea was surveyed in 2014 , but was omitted from sampling in 2019 due to security concerns . ) From 2004 to 2013 , roughly six-in-ten or more Russians held positive views of the EU . However , attitudes changed dramatically after 2013 , with about half of Russians expressing an unfavorable view in 2014 . Negative attitudes have persisted through Russian President Vladimir Putin 's third term , the Russian annexation of Crimea and subsequent EU sanctions on Russia in response to that military incursion .
Only 23 % of U.S. adults who self-identify as Hispanic or Latino have heard of the term Latinx , and just 3 % say they use it to describe themselves , according to a bilingual survey of U.S. Hispanic adults the Center conducted in December 2019 . Awareness and use vary across subgroups , with young Hispanics ages 18 to 29 among the most likely to have heard of the term – 42 % say they have heard of it , compared with 7 % of those ages 65 or older . Use is among the highest for Hispanic women ages 18 to 29 – 14 % say they use it , compared with 1 % of Hispanic men in the same age group who say they use it .
Among U.S. adults who attend religious services a few times a year or more often , almost half ( 45 % ) say they 're not sure whether the clergy at their congregation are Democrats or Republicans , and roughly a quarter ( 27 % ) say their clergy are a mix of both . When congregants think they know the political affiliation of their religious leaders , 16 % say their clergy are mostly Republicans , while a slightly smaller share say they are mostly Democrats ( 11 % ) . More broadly , respondents are satisfied with the amount of political talk they 're hearing from the pulpit . Among Americans who attend worship services a few times a year or more often , 72 % say there is about the right amount of political discussion in sermons , while fewer say there 's too much ( 11 % ) or not enough ( 14 % ) . ( The survey did n't ask how often politics are discussed at places of worship – just whether respondents were satisfied with the amount they hear . )
Just under half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say they agree with the Tea Party — representing 17 % of Americans overall . The remaining Republicans make up 23 % of the public , and either disagree with ( 3 % ) or have no opinion of the Tea Party ( 20 % ) .
The economic differences within parties are striking . Republicans and Republican leaners with family incomes of $ 100,000 or more are more likely than any other income group in either party to say the system is fair to most Americans : 60 % of Republicans with incomes of at least $ 100,000 express this view , compared with no more than about four-in-ten Republicans in lower income categories . Among Democrats , the pattern is reversed . Higher-income Democrats and Democratic leaners are the most likely to say the economic system in this country unfairly favors powerful interests : 82 % of Democrats with a household income of $ 100,000 or more say this ; just 17 % say the system is typically fair to `` most Americans . ''
Christians in Western Europe , including non-practicing Christians , believe in a higher power . Although many non-practicing Christians say they do not believe in God `` as described in the Bible , '' they do tend to believe in some other higher power or spiritual force in the universe . By contrast , most church-attending Christians say they believe in God as depicted in the Bible . And religiously unaffiliated adults generally say they do not believe in God or any higher power or spiritual force in the universe . Non-practicing Christians are also more likely than religiously unaffiliated adults to embrace spiritual concepts such as having a soul and feeling a connection to something that can not be measured .
In the new survey , majorities across all educational groups now say they favor same-sex marriage , but levels of support are highest among those who have graduated from college : 79 % among those with postgraduate degrees and 72 % among those with bachelor 's degrees . Smaller majorities of those with some college experience but no college degree ( 62 % ) or those with no more than a high school degree ( 53 % ) say they favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry . While Republicans overall are divided in views of same-sex marriage , moderate and liberal Republicans are much more supportive than are conservative Republicans ( 63 % vs. 39 % ) . There also are wide ideological differences among Democrats , though majorities of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 66 % ) and liberal Democrats ( 90 % ) favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally .
Overall , views of extremist groups are negative across the Muslim publics surveyed . A median of about a third or fewer have a positive view of al Qaeda , the Taliban , Hamas , or Hezbollah . And in no country polled do any of these organizations receive majority Muslim support . Al Qaeda , which is responsible for some of the most well-known and devastating terrorist attacks in the last 15 years , receives the most negative ratings among the extremist groups included in the survey . A median of 57 % across the 11 Muslim publics surveyed hold an unfavorable view of the group . This includes strong majorities of Muslims in Lebanon ( 96 % ) , Jordan ( 81 % ) , Turkey ( 73 % ) , and Egypt ( 69 % ) . More than half of Muslims in Nigeria , Senegal , Tunisia , Indonesia , and the Palestinian territories also view al Qaeda negatively . In Pakistan and Malaysia , Muslim views of al Qaeda are on balance unfavorable , but many offer no opinion .
The oil leak continues to dominate news coverage as well . About a third of all coverage ( 34 % ) was devoted to the oil leak , far more than any other story , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism .
Barack Obama 's job approval is little changed over the last month , with Americans about equally likely to say they approve of his job performance ( 48 % ) as disapprove ( 46 % ) . But his current ratings reflect a shift in a positive direction from last year . Obama 's rating among independents , in particular , has ticked higher in recent months ; 45 % of independents now approve of his job performance , similar to his rating last month ( 42 % ) , but significantly higher than in December ( 39 % ) and throughout much of 2014 .
Respondents were asked whether they thought a series of online platforms were more welcoming toward men , more welcoming toward women , or equally welcoming to both sexes . While most online environments were viewed as equally welcoming to both genders , the starkest results were for online gaming . Some 44 % of respondents felt the platform was more welcoming toward men . Data in this report are drawn from the Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel , a probability-based , nationally representative panel . This survey was conducted May 30 – June 30 , 2014 and self-administered via the internet by 2,849 web users , with a margin of error of plus or minus 2.4 percentage points . For more information on the American Trends Panel , please see the Methods section at the end of this report .
The new survey finds that while large majorities of voters think that the elections in their community will be run and administered very or somewhat well , they are less confident in the administration of elections throughout the country . And voters ' confidence in elections in the United States has declined since 2018 – with most of the change coming among voters who supported Republican candidates then and Trump today . Currently , 90 % of registered voters say they are very ( 44 % ) or somewhat confident ( 46 % ) that elections in their community will be run and administered very or somewhat well . But a smaller majority ( 62 % ) expects that elections in the U.S. will be administered well . Voters were more positive in views of election administration shortly before the 2018 midterm elections . In October 2018 , about nine-in-ten said they expected elections in their community ( 92 % ) and in the U.S. ( 81 % ) to be run and administered very or somewhat well .
The nation 's Cuban American population numbers 2 million , up from 1.2 million in 2000 . Much of that growth has come from Cuban Americans born in the U.S. , leading to a decline in the share born in Cuba from 68 % in 2000 down to 57 % in 2013 . At the same time , a new , more recent wave of Cuban immigrants has arrived in the U.S . Since 1990 , more than 500,000 Cuban immigrants have entered the U.S. , according to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security . That has altered the demographics of those born in Cuba as the older generation of Cuban exiles passes away . In 2013 , more than half ( 56 % ) of Cuban immigrants had arrived since 1990 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data .
There are also sizable differences in views about this issue by age , with younger adults ages 18 to 29 especially likely ( 66 % ) to see government regulations as necessary . Seniors 65 and older , however , think the private marketplace is the most effective way to increase reliance on renewable energy sources by a 50 % -41 % margin . Differences by age hold even when accounting for the tendency of older adults to identify with the GOP .
The latest survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press and The Washington Post , conducted September 1 - 4 , 2011 among 1,001 adults , finds that large majorities say additional spending on infrastructure , cutting the federal budget deficit and tax cuts for businesses and individuals would do at least a little to improve the job situation . But there is no consensus that any of these ideas would do a lot to help . More than three-quarters of Americans say that additional spending on roads , bridges and other public works would improve the job situation a lot ( 36 % ) or a little ( 41 % ) . Smaller majorities say that cutting taxes on businesses ( 70 % ) , budget cuts to reduce the deficit ( 65 % ) and cutting personal income taxes ( 60 % ) would do a lot or a little to help the job situation .
In 1995 , only about one in 10 adults in the U.S. were going online .21 As of August 2011 , the U.S. internet population includes 78 % of adults ( and 95 % of teenagers ) .22 Certain aspects of the current internet population still strongly resemble the state of internet adoption in 2000 , when one of Pew Internet 's first reports found that minorities , adults living in households with lower incomes , and seniors were less likely than others to be online . `` Those who do not use the Internet often do not feel any need to try it , some are wary of the technology , and others are unhappy about what they hear about the online world , '' the report concluded .
Vast majority of teens have access to a home computer or smartphone Some 95 % of teens now say they have or have access to a smartphone , which represents a 22-percentage-point increase from the 73 % of teens who said this in 2014 - 2015 . Smartphone ownership is nearly universal among teens of different genders , races and ethnicities and socioeconomic backgrounds . A more nuanced story emerges when it comes to teens ' access to computers . While 88 % of teens report having access to a desktop or laptop computer at home , access varies greatly by income level . Fully 96 % of teens from households with an annual income of $ 75,000 or more per year say they have access to a computer at home , but that share falls to 75 % among those from households earning less than $ 30,000 a year . Computer access also varies by the level of education among parents . Teens who have a parent with a bachelor 's degree or more are more likely to say they have access to a computer than teens whose parents have a high school diploma or less ( 94 % vs. 78 % ) .
Barack Obama 's approval rating remains divided , with 46 % approving of his job performance and 47 % disapproving of it . Obama 's approval rating is little changed since the start of the year . But through much of 2014 , Obama 's job rating hovered around 44 % .
Even though the share of Hispanic adults who consume news media in Spanish has declined , the number of potential Spanish news media consumers is growing as a result of the rapid overall rise in the number of Hispanics in the U.S.—to 52 million in 2011 , up from 35 million in 2000 . According to U.S. Census Bureau data , a record 35 million Hispanics ages 5 and older speak Spanish ( at home ) , up from 25 million in 2000 and 10 million in 1980 . At the same time , a record 31 million Hispanics ages 5 and older are proficient in English , up from 19 million in 2000 and 8 million in 1980 .
Tuesday night 's botched execution of Oklahoma inmate Clayton Lockett is renewing debate about how , and whether , the U.S. should continue to impose the death penalty . Though a majority ( 55 % ) of Americans in a 2013 Pew Research Center survey said they favored the death penalty for convicted murderers , that was the lowest support level in four decades ; support has been falling for the past two decades . ( Gallup 's most recent poll on the subject , from this past October , found 60 % support , also the lowest in more than 40 years . )
Beyond the rising criticism of press performance and patriotism , there also has been significant erosion in support for the news media 's watchdog role over the military . Nearly half ( 47 % ) say that by criticizing the military , news organizations are weakening the nation 's defenses ; 44 % say such criticism keeps the nation militarily prepared . The percentage saying press criticism weakens American defenses has been increasing in recent years and now stands at its highest point in surveys dating to 1985 .
Overall , the survey finds little change in attitudes about discrimination against most groups since March . Large majorities continue to say that Muslims ( 83 % ) , gays and lesbians ( 79 % ) , blacks and Hispanics ( 77 % each ) , women ( 68 % ) and Jews ( 66 % ) face a lot or some discrimination in the U.S .
The horrific nature of mass shootings , which are rare and account for a very small share of all homicides , always rivet public attention . But because this one occurred on a military base , it drew attention again to concerns about the extent to how the military copes with soldiers experiencing mental and emotional problems , particularly when it comes to veterans returning from the post-9/11 wars .
As the island population has dwindled and the mainland population has grown , the number of stateside Puerto Ricans reached a record 4.9 million in 2012 , and since at least 2006 has exceeded the number of Puerto Ricans on the island ( 3.5 million in 2012 ) . Meanwhile , the overall population in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico , including both Hispanics and non-Hispanics , declined to 3.6 million in 2013 , according to U.S. Census Bureau population estimates .
More generally , the public continues to express reservations about the United States taking an active role in the world . A separate survey , conducted May 26 - 29 , finds a nearly even division of opinion over whether the U.S. should `` mind its own business internationally '' – 46 % say that it should , while 50 % disagree .
Smartphones , or phones that can connect to the internet and run apps , are the most prevalent type of mobile device in nine of the 11 countries surveyed : A majority of adults ( median of 53 % ) report using a smartphone . Usage is highest in Lebanon ( 86 % ) and Jordan ( 85 % ) , and lowest in India ( 32 % ) . Basic and feature phones are less popular overall , but some countries stand out for their high usage of these less digitally connected phones . In India nearly half of adults ( 47 % ) say they use a basic mobile phone that can not connect to the internet . Sizable shares in Kenya ( 40 % ) , Tunisia ( 37 % ) and Venezuela ( 36 % ) also report using a basic phone . Feature phones are generally the least common devices in the countries surveyed , with few adults ( median of 4 % ) saying they own or share a device that can connect to the internet but is not a smartphone . But feature phones – which offer some of the same features as smartphones , but typically can not support apps – are popular in Mexico , where one-third of adults say they use this type of device . About one-in-five Kenyans ( 21 % ) and Colombians ( 17 % ) also use feature phones .
Overall , the U.S. imprisonment rate has been on a downward trajectory for the past decade , though the country still has the highest incarceration rate in the world . Counting all races and ethnicities , the U.S. imprisonment rate fell 17 % between 2006 and 2018 , from 666 prisoners per 100,000 adults to 555 per 100,000 . The imprisonment rate at the end of 2018 was about the same level as in 1995 , when there were 556 prisoners for every 100,000 adults .
As Russian troops remain in Ukraine 's Crimea region and Crimea 's Parliament has set up a secession vote , Americans prefer the U.S. to not get too involved in the situation . By a roughly two-to-one margin ( 56 % vs. 29 % ) , the public says it is more important for the U.S. to not get involved in the situation with Russia and Ukraine than to take a firm stand against Russian actions .
About six in ten American adults ( 59 % ) go online wirelessly , either through their smartphones or through a wireless card in their laptop .3 Adults age 45 and younger are the most likely to connect to the internet with a laptop , cell phone , or other internet-connected mobile device , as 82 % of Millennials and 71 % of Gen X connect that way . Only 9 % of the G.I . Generation go online wirelessly .
President Bush delivered the first two of four major speeches outlining a `` plan for victory '' in Iraq prior to this survey , but the addresses failed to turn around the general perception that the president lacks a clear plan for bringing the situation to a successful conclusion . Fewer than three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say Bush has a clear plan , while two-thirds say he does not .
According to elderly parents , they are most often the ones who initiate these types of conversations . Among those who say they have discussed these topics with their children , 70 % say they raised the issues while only 10 % say their children initiated the conversations .
On the political front , Germany 's mainstream parties enjoy widespread support . A 58 % majority have a favorable opinion of Merkel 's center-right Christian Democratic Union ( CDU ) and a 68 % majority like the center-left Social Democratic Party ( SPD ) . This stands in stark contrast to France , Greece , Italy , Spain and the UK , where all political parties tend to be unpopular .
Today , 72 % of Trump voters say that obstacles that once made it harder for women are now largely gone , up from 67 % in 2016 . By contrast , just 20 % of Biden voters currently say this – a modest decline from the 26 % among Clinton voters in 2016 .
Ratings of the national economy are virtually unchanged from November : Currently , just 8 % say national economic conditions are either excellent ( 1 % ) or good ( 7 % ) while 91 % say they are only fair ( 41 % ) or poor ( 50 % ) .
About four-in-ten adults ( 38 % ) say they are `` not too '' or `` not at all '' confident that they will have enough income and assets for their retirement , according to a 2012 survey . That 's up 13 percentage points from the 25 % who expressed that concern in a Pew Research survey in early 2009 .
Overall , 77 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say they agree with their own party 's policies to deal with illegal immigration . A slightly smaller majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 70 % ) say they agree with the Democratic Party 's policies on the issue . In addition , a greater share of Republicans ( 54 % ) than Democrats ( 37 % ) say they strongly agree with their own party 's stance on illegal immigration . Among Republicans , conservatives ( 85 % ) are more likely to agree with their party 's positions on illegal immigration than moderates and liberals ( 64 % ) . Similarly , a larger share of liberal Democrats ( 82 % ) than conservative and moderate Democrats ( 61 % ) agree with their own party 's positions on the issue .
The same report found that Americans overwhelmingly support limits on campaign contributions and believe new laws could reduce the role of money in politics . Around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 77 % ) said there should be limits on the amount of money that individuals and groups can spend on political campaigns , while 20 % said individuals and groups should be able to spend as much as they want . And around two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) said new laws could be written to effectively reduce the role of money in politics , while 31 % said such laws would not be effective .
Views of why some people are rich and poor vary by gender , education and income level as well . For example , men ( 49 % ) are slightly more likely than women ( 41 % ) to say that hard work is more often the reason why someone is rich . Men ( 42 % ) also are more likely than women ( 26 % ) to say that a lack of effort is more to blame if someone is poor . Those with postgraduate degrees are more likely to say that having more advantages in life has more to do with why a person is rich ( 52 % ) than they are to say hard work has more to do with it ( 34 % ) . Those with less education are more divided on what has more to do with why a person is rich . When it comes to the reasons why a person is poor , majorities of postgraduates ( 62 % ) and college graduates ( 59 % ) say circumstances are generally to blame . Most of those with some college experience ( 54 % ) also take this view . Among those with no more than a high school diploma , about half ( 49 % ) point to circumstances as the reason why a person is poor , while 38 % cite a lack of effort .
The public is divided over the best approach to confronting global terrorism . Overall , 45 % say `` using overwhelming military force is the best way to defeat terrorism around the world , '' while about as many ( 46 % ) say `` relying too much on military force to defeat terrorism creates hatred that leads to more terrorism . '' There are wide partisan differences on the question of force and global terrorism . Democrats are far more likely to say relying too much on force creates hatred that leads to more terrorism than to say using overwhelming military force is the best way to defeat terrorism around the world ( 66 % -27 % ) . By contrast , Republicans are more likely to see overwhelming force as the best way to defeat terrorism by a 72 % -18 % margin . Independents are more divided : 49 % say relying too much on force creates hatred , while 43 % say overwhelming military force is the best way to defeat terrorism around the world .
Officers who have fired their weapon differ from their colleagues on other issues as well . For example , they are somewhat more likely to approve of harsh , physical methods for dealing with some people than their colleagues who have not discharged their gun ( 49 % vs 42 % ) . They also are somewhat more likely to say that the country has made the changes needed to assure equal rights for blacks than to believe more changes are needed ( 85 % among those who have fired their service weapon vs. 79 % among officers who have not ) . Again , the relationship between these attitudes and whether or not an officer has fired his or her service weapon is statistically significant even after controlling for other factors in the analysis .
In its early surveys about technology use in 2000 , when about half of American adults used the internet , the Pew Research Center 's Internet Project found that about a tenth of those internet users placed phone calls using the internet . In its last reading in late 2012 , when over 80 % of Americans were internet users , the Project found that 30 % of them had placed online phone calls .
The survey finds that jobs , education and health care are the top issues for Hispanic registered voters as they think about the upcoming presidential election . Half identify jobs as extremely important to them personally , followed closely by education ( 49 % ) and health care ( 45 % ) . These top three reflect the same three issues Hispanic registered voters identified as most important in 2010 ( Lopez , 2010 ) and in 2008 ( Lopez and Minushkin , 2008 ) . One-third ( 33 % ) of Latino registered voters say immigration is extremely important to them personally , statistically unchanged since 2010 . About a third also describes taxes and the federal budget deficit as extremely important issues .
Although China 's economy has grown consistently at above 6 % for more than a decade , Americans ' views of which country – China or the U.S. – has the strongest economy have fluctuated considerably over this same period . Since 2015 , however , when asked to choose between the U.S. , China , Japan and the countries of the European Union as the world 's leading economic power , Americans tend to choose their own country . Today , half of Americans say the U.S. is the dominant economy , whereas roughly one-third ( 32 % ) name China – an 18 percentage point difference .
The survey finds that Americans are less impressed now by the Democratic congressional leadership than when the party took control of Congress in January . While approval of the job Democratic leaders are doing has dipped only slightly – from 39 % in January to 34 % today – disapproval has grown substantially from 34 % to 49 % . Independents , in particular , express a much more negative opinion of Democratic congressional leaders . Fully 58 % disapprove of their job performance , up from 40 % in January .
Many more say the news organizations gave too much coverage to the unrest and violence than too little coverage ( 44 % vs. 12 % ) , but 38 % say it was the right amount . Roughly equal shares think the press gave too much ( 25 % ) as too little ( 28 % ) coverage to the circumstances surrounding Gray 's death ; a 39 % plurality thinks it was the right amount . When it comes to the non-violent protests , more believe that news organizations have given too little ( 37 % ) than too much ( 22 % ) coverage .
The Pew Research Center projections have assumed that the annual immigration level , now about 1.4 million people , will increase slowly by 1 % per year , reaching 2.1 million immigrants in 2050 . ( Figure 3 )
One-in-five ( 20 % ) closely followed the State of the Union last week , down from 26 % last year and the lowest news interest during Obama 's tenure . ( By comparison , 24 % of the public followed George W. Bush 's 2006 State of the Union address to start his sixth year in office . ) Twice as many Democrats ( 33 % ) as Republicans ( 16 % ) and independents ( 15 % ) followed Obama 's speech closely . Cold winter weather in much of the country was the most f0llowed news story of the week , with nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) saying they paid very close attention . People living in the South ( 45 % ) , the Northeast and the Midwest ( 42 % each ) were much more likely than those in the West ( 21 % ) to closely follow news about the cold weather . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) closely followed news about the economy last week . The Super Bowl was closely followed by 23 % , which is roughly equal to interest in past years . An additional 17 % closely followed debate over immigration policy in the U.S. , while about one-in-ten ( 9 % ) paid close attention to preparations for the Olympics .
Half of singles say they are n't currently looking for a relationship or dates . Among these single non-daters , 47 % say a major reason why they are n't currently looking for a relationship or dates is that they have more important priorities , while 44 % say they just like being single . Other factors include being too busy ( 20 % ) , not having had luck in the past ( 18 % ) , feeling like no one would be interested in dating them ( 17 % ) , not being ready to date after losing a spouse or ending a relationship ( 17 % ) , feeling too old to date ( 17 % ) and having health problems that make dating difficult ( 11 % ) .
There continues to be a sizable partisan gap in ratings of the national economy . Currently , 46 % of Republicans , but just 24 % of independents and 15 % of Democrats , give the economy at least a good rating . During the 1990s , partisan differences on this question were relatively small and inconsistent in direction . Beginning in 2002 , a substantial party divide opened up on the question and Democrats and Republicans have remained far apart in their assessments ever since .
Tunisians are particularly critical of their country 's current political leadership . Less than half ( 44 % ) view interim president Moncef Marzouki favorably . Just over a third ( 37 % ) see President of the Constituent Assembly and Ettakatol party leader , Mustapha Ben Jaafar , in a positive light , and his support is down 21 percentage points since 2012 . There is even less backing for other coalition and opposition figures , and their standing in the public eye has generally deteriorated . Only former Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali manages to garner the support of a majority of Tunisians ( 58 % ) and even his approval has declined slightly from last year .
While it 's nowhere near the top , 12 % of online Americans cited The Daily Show as a place they got their news . This audience share was on par with that of USA Today ( 12 % ) and The Huffington Post ( 13 % ) among 36 different news outlets Pew Research Center asked about in a 2014 survey . Roughly equal shares of online Americans trust ( 16 % ) and distrust ( 18 % ) The Daily Show as a source of government and political news , but there is a strong ideological split in who trusts the show : Almost half ( 45 % ) of consistent liberals say they trust The Daily Show , while less than 1 % of consistent conservatives say the same . Liberals , men and college grads are more likely than conservatives , women and those without a college degree to get political and government news from The Daily Show . About a third ( 34 % ) of those with consistently liberal political views watch The Daily Show , compared with a mere 1 % of those with consistently conservative political values . There is also a small gap between men and women : 15 % of men get news about government and politics from The Daily Show , compared with 9 % of women . And 16 % of college grads report watching the Daily Show in the past week , higher than both those with some college ( 12 % ) and those with a high school degree or less ( 7 % ) .
When Francis began his papacy in March of 2013 , 57 % of Americans held a favorable view of him , while 14 % held an unfavorable view and 29 % could n't give him a rating . Now , seven-in-ten Americans express a favorable view of Francis , while 19 % express an unfavorable opinion and just 11 % say they do n't know enough to be able to rate the pontiff .
While the conflict continues , many in Turkey , Jordan and Lebanon want their country to accept fewer refugees . As of mid-2016 , these countries and other neighboring nations have taken in about 4.8 million Syrian refugees . Only 8 % in Jordan and 4 % in Lebanon and Turkey support accepting more refugees from Syria . A majority in Jordan wants its country to accept fewer Syrian refugees and around one-quarter ( 23 % ) say their country should not accept any refugees ( a volunteered category ) . However , Syrians already living in Jordan have very different views . A large majority of them say the country should accept more refugees from Syria and 0 % say that Jordan should stop accepting refugees all together . In Lebanon , similar numbers say their country should either accept fewer refugees ( 40 % ) or none at all ( 42 % ) . Christians are more likely than Shia or Sunni Muslims to say that Lebanon should not accept any refugees from Syria .
As the United States and Cuba moved this week to end more than 50 years of diplomatic conflict , public support for re-establishing relations with Cuba has increased . There is equally broad , and growing , support for ending the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba . In addition , a separate survey released today finds that the publics of several Latin American nations also view renewed U.S.-Cuba relations favorably . Nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) of Americans say they approve of the U.S. re-establishing diplomatic relations with Cuba , up 10 points since January . A similar majority ( 72 % ) favors the U.S. ending its trade embargo against Cuba , `` which would allow U.S. companies to do business in Cuba and Cuban companies to do business in the U.S . ''
The marital status of mothers has also changed dramatically . In 1960 , nearly all mothers with young children were married , compared with just seven-in-ten today . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) of all births today are to unmarried women ; up from just 5 % of births in 1960 .
When asked about the Islamist group Boko Haram , roughly eight-in-ten Nigerian Muslims ( 83 % ) say they have an unfavorable opinion of the extremist movement . Even more Nigerian Christians ( 92 % ) say the same .
Since 2011 , the proportion of cell owners who say they own either an iPhone or an Android device have each grown dramatically . Android owners now represent 28 % of all cell owners ( up from 15 % in May 2011 ) , while iPhone owners now represent 25 % of the cell owner population ( up from 10 % in May 2011 ) . Meanwhile , the proportion of cell owners who say they own a Blackberry device has fallen from 10 % in May 2011 to just 4 % in our most recent survey .
A majority of Hispanics worry that they , or someone they know , will be deported . Nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) Latinos , in a 2008 Pew Hispanic Center survey , said they worried that they themselves or a family member , or a close friend may be deported . The foreign born were more likely than the native born to say this—73 % versus 35 % .
The majority of Americans who have heard of QAnon think it 's a bad thing for the country . Among those who have heard of the conspiracy theories , 57 % say QAnon is a `` very bad '' thing for the country . Another 17 % say it is `` somewhat bad . '' That compares with 20 % who say it is a somewhat or very good thing , while 6 % did not answer . Democrats who have heard of QAnon are more likely than their Republican counterparts to say it 's bad for the country . Almost eight-in-ten Democrats who have heard of QAnon ( 77 % ) say it is a `` very bad '' thing for the country , and another 13 % say it is a somewhat bad thing . On the other hand , only about a quarter of Republicans who have heard of QAnon ( 26 % ) feel it is very bad for the country , while 24 % say it is somewhat bad . Indeed , roughly four-in-ten Republicans who have heard of QAnon ( 41 % ) say it is a good thing for the country ( 32 % somewhat good and 9 % very good ) .
Bachelor 's degree recipients from private schools graduated with higher average debt than those with four-year degrees from public schools . A typical private non-profit college graduate in 2011 - 2012 who borrowed to complete their education graduated with $ 32,308 in loans ( those graduating from private for-profit colleges owed even more , at about $ 40,038 ) , compared with $ 25,640 among public university graduates the same year .
In his home country of Argentina , 91 % have a favorable opinion of Francis , including 65 % with a very favorable view . Majorities in every other Latin American country also see the pope in a positive light , including seven-in-ten or more in Colombia ( 83 % ) , Mexico ( 74 % ) , Brazil ( 74 % ) and Peru ( 72 % ) . Eight-in-ten or more also express support for the pope in Poland ( 92 % ) , Italy ( 91 % ) , France ( 88 % ) , Spain ( 84 % ) and Germany ( 82 % ) . A smaller portion , yet still a majority , in the United Kingdom ( 65 % ) view Francis favorably . Roughly half the Greeks ( 49 % ) agree , though nearly a quarter ( 24 % ) have an unfavorable view and about three-in-ten ( 28 % ) do not rate him . His favorability is lower in other regions , though many say they can not rate him , have never heard of him or do not have an opinion . In Asia , broad majorities in the Philippines ( 88 % ) and South Korea ( 86 % ) express positive views of Francis . At least four-in-ten give favorable views in Thailand ( 49 % ) , Bangladesh ( 47 % ) , Vietnam ( 41 % ) and Japan ( 40 % ) . But majorities in Indonesia ( 57 % ) , India ( 61 % ) , Malaysia ( 76 % ) and Pakistan ( 85 % ) do not have an opinion of the pope at all . A similar pattern arises in Africa . Majorities in Uganda ( 70 % ) , Tanzania ( 70 % ) and Kenya ( 56 % ) – countries with the highest percentages of Catholics in the African nations surveyed – give the pope a favorable rating . However , four-in-ten or more in Ghana ( 40 % ) , Nigeria ( 46 % ) , South Africa ( 52 % ) and Senegal ( 55 % ) , where more people tend to be Protestant or Muslim , offer no opinion . Many in the Middle East do not offer a rating of the pope . But of those who have an opinion , there are interesting differences between countries . Francis is most popular in Lebanon ( 62 % favorable ) , where more than a quarter of the population is Catholic . And half in Israel give the pope favorable marks . ( Pope Francis visited Israel and the Palestinian territories about two weeks after the survey was conducted . ) However , the pope receives his most negative ratings in Egypt ( 35 % unfavorable ) , Jordan ( 34 % ) and Turkey ( 32 % ) . Like many other countries with small Catholic populations , the pope is relatively unknown in Tunisia ( 71 % no rating ) and the Palestinian territories ( 63 % ) .
Over the past four decades , the American middle class has been shrinking relative to upper- and lower-income groups , both of which represent bigger shares of the population than at any time since at least 1971 , a new Pew Research Center report finds . Which raises the question : Which industries and occupations are more likely to offer opportunities for middle- and upper-income jobs ? A follow-up analysis finds that , as you might expect , the upper-income tier has grown the most in the financial and natural-resources industries ( think oil and gas ) , and among executives and managers . At the same time , the lower-income tier increased the most among retail sales workers and `` operators , '' a grouping of mostly blue-collar manufacturing-type jobs .
About a quarter ( 26 % ) of White Republicans have a great deal of confidence in scientists to act in the public interest , but there are not enough Black Republicans in the survey sample for separate analysis . There are also differences between White and Black adults on a similar question in the most recent GSS . In 2018 , that survey found that 47 % of White adults had a great deal of confidence in leaders of the scientific community , compared with 30 % of Black adults ( a 17 percentage point difference ) . Overall , 55 % of Black adults said they had `` only some confidence '' in scientific leaders , and 12 % said they had hardly any confidence in scientific leaders . White adults were less likely to express these views : 46 % had only some confidence in scientists and 5 % had hardly any . The views of Hispanics fell between those of White and Black Americans . The gap between Black and White adults has been consistent in GSS surveys over time . Penn State Professor Eric Plutzer found Black adults to have lower confidence in scientific leaders than White adults in a combined analysis of data from 2006 to 2010 , even after controlling for education , science knowledge and other factors .
The number of Mexican immigrants living in the U.S. illegally has declined by 2 million since 2007 . In 2017 , 4.9 million unauthorized immigrants from Mexico lived in the U.S. , down from a peak of 6.9 million in 2007 . Mexicans now make up fewer than half of the nation 's 10.5 million unauthorized immigrants ( 47 % in 2017 ) .
GOP leaders ' job approval improves . Job approval for Republican congressional leaders has increased sharply – from 19 % to 34 % – since September 2015 . In contrast , there has been little change in Democratic leaders ' job ratings ( 34 % then , 37 % now ) .
Over the past two decades , the share of students graduating from public high schools who are white and non-Hispanic has declined dramatically – from 73 % in 1995 to 57 % in 2012 , according to the most recent data available . In that time period the shares that are Hispanic and Asian have grown . WICHE projects that this trend will continue , with the public high school graduating class of 2025 being barely majority white ( 51 % ) .
America 's students are more racially and ethnically diverse than ever , while teachers remain overwhelmingly white . In fall 2015 , the share of nonwhite students in U.S. public elementary and secondary schools hit a record 51 % . That 's up from 30 % in fall 1986 . Growth has been especially fast among Hispanic students , who increased from 10 % of students in 1986 to 26 % in 2015 . At the same time , nonwhites continue to make up a relatively small share of teachers : In the 2015 - 16 school year , just 20 % of public school elementary and secondary teachers were nonwhite , up from 13 % in 1987 - 88 . ( In 2015 , 39 % of all Americans were nonwhite . )
Meanwhile , the share of all Hispanic adults who access the internet through a home broadband connection is little changed since 2010 . Then , 45 % said they accessed the internet through a broadband home connection . Today that share is 46 % . Among blacks too there was little change in the share of adults who have broadband access at home – 50 % in 2010 and 55 % in 2015 . Over the same period , that share among whites grew from 64 % to 73 % .
The Democratic Party also lags in overall favorability . Currently , 63 % of Americans say they have a favorable view of the Republican Party , 57 % say the same about the Democrats .
Democrats ' overall assessments of how well the caucus and primary process will do in selecting the best general election candidate are largely positive . Around three-quarters Democratic voters ( 77 % ) expect this year 's nominating contests to do a very or somewhat good job of selecting the best Democratic candidate for the general election .
A majority of Republicans ( 60 % ) say Hamas is most responsible for the current violence . Democrats are divided : 29 % say Hamas is more responsible , 26 % Israel , while 18 % volunteer that both sides are responsible .
Among the public overall , 30 % say they support legalizing marijuana use and have always felt that way , while 21 % have changed their minds ; they say there was a time when they thought it should be illegal . By contrast , 35 % say they oppose legalization and have always felt that way ; just 7 % have changed their minds from supporting to opposing legalization .
No single story dominated Americans ' attention . Nearly two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say reports about the condition of the economy was their top story , while 14 % cite news about the candidates for president in 2012 as the story they followed most closely .
Only about a third of blacks say race relations in the U.S. are good . About six-in-ten blacks ( 61 % ) say race relations in the U.S. are generally bad , while just 34 % say relations are generally good . Whites are more split on the state of race relations in the country , with nearly equal shares saying relations are good ( 46 % ) as say they are bad ( 45 % ) . About nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) blacks say the country needs to continue making changes to give blacks equal rights with whites , compared with 53 % of whites . Immediately following the election of President Donald Trump , a far greater share of blacks ( 74 % ) than whites ( 43 % ) said they expected the election would lead to worse race relations .
About two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed news about the health care debate most closely , while 11 % say they followed reports about the condition of the economy most closely . In both cases , 37 % say they followed developments on these stories very closely . That 's about the same as the percentages following very closely one week earlier .
Finally , we compute the median of the size-adjusted household incomes . Middle-income households , by our definition , earn as much as twice the median income or as little as two-thirds the median . This results in a range of $ 40,667 to $ 122,000 for a middle-income American household of three in 2013 .
Nearly eight-in-ten Republicans ( 79 % ) sympathize more with Israel than the Palestinians , while just 6 % sympathize more with the Palestinians ; another 7 % say they sympathize with both or neither , while 9 % say they do not know . As was the case last year , Democrats are divided in views of the Middle East conflict : Currently , 27 % of Democrats say they sympathize more with Israel , while 25 % say they sympathize more with the Palestinians ; another 23 % say they sympathize with neither or both sides and one-quarter ( 25 % ) say they do n't know . Democrats also were divided last year , when 33 % said they sympathized with Israel and 31 % said the Palestinians . Since then , the share of Democrats saying they do n't know has increased from 17 % to 25 % and the share saying they sympathize with both or neither has ticked up slightly from 19 % to 23 % .
The survey finds that Republicans have generally positive impressions of six GOP declared or likely candidates . Jeb Bush is the best known of those included in the survey , but he also has the highest unfavorable rating : 52 % of Republicans and Republican leaners view Bush favorably , while 35 % view him unfavorably . About half of Republicans ( 51 % ) view Marco Rubio favorably , compared with 20 % who have an unfavorable impression ; 29 % are unable to rate the Florida senator . Scott Walker is viewed favorably by 46 % , while 17 % rate him unfavorably ( 36 % unable to rate ) . And 45 % view Ted Cruz favorably , compared with 25 % who view him unfavorably ( 30 % ca n't rate ) .
A string of revelations over the past two years about the National Security Agency 's domestic and international surveillance efforts have brought new awareness to many Americans about online privacy and security concerns . Yet most American adults have not made significant changes to their digital behavior , and 54 % say that it would be `` somewhat '' or `` very '' difficult to find the tools and strategies that would enhance their privacy online and when using cellphones , according to a Pew Research Center report .
Among registered voters who have seen or heard campaign ads , 53 % say they generally do not pay attention , while 46 % do pay attention to them . In this regard , Republicans and Democrats have something to agree on : About half of each group ( 51 % of Democrats , 48 % of Republicans ) say they do not pay attention to campaign commercials ; independents are more likely than partisans to disregard campaign ads ( 59 % pay no attention ) .
The share of the public that says they are hearing a mix of good and bad economic news fell from 64 % in May to 59 % , while the share that says they are hearing mostly bad news increased from 31 % to 37 % . The percentage that says they are hearing mostly good news remains small and did not change ( 4 % ) .
Black Americans are less concerned about made-up news than other national issues . When asked what they think about `` made-up news and information , '' about four-in-ten black adults ( 42 % ) say it is a very big problem , compared with about half of whites ( 51 % ) . They also rank it much lower among a list of potential challenges . Among whites , made-up news draws more concern than seven of the 11 issues asked about . But among blacks , most of these issues are seen as more important than made-up news . Hispanics also rate most other problems as more important than made-up news .
In recent years , the public has become more supportive of policy action related to climate change . In another Center survey conducted Jan. 8 to 13 , more Americans said dealing with global climate change should be a top priority for Congress and the president than said this in early 2015 ( 52 % , up from 34 % ) . But again , the increased emphasis on climate policy has come among Democrats , not Republicans . Some 78 % of Democrats ( and independents who lean to the Democratic Party ) , including 87 % of liberal Democrats , said this year that dealing with global climate change should be a top priority for the president and Congress . In 2015 , 46 % of Democrats said this . In contrast , only 21 % of Republicans and GOP-leaning independents said this year that climate change should be a top priority – a virtually identical share as in 2015 ( 19 % ) .
The economy was , by far , the top issue for Latino voters . About half ( 49 % ) of Latino voters called it the most important issue facing the country , according to the national exit poll . Health care ( 24 % ) and illegal immigration ( 16 % ) followed . These findings mirror other surveys . For example , our survey has produced similar rankings of the issues over the years . Even though immigration is not the top issue for Latinos , it remains an important one . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Latino registered voters say passing new immigration legislation soon is extremely or very important , according to the center 's 2014 National Survey of Latinos .
At the start of his presidency , Obama received significantly more positive ratings than his predecessor . In 2009 , Egyptians were almost evenly divided between those who expressed confidence that Obama would `` do the right thing '' in world affairs ( 42 % ) and those who lacked confidence in the new American president ( 47 % ) . But Obama 's ratings have steadily declined , and today , only 26 % of Egyptians express confidence in him , while 72 % have little or no confidence .
As more and more Americans use social networking sites , these spaces can become the site of potential tension or awkwardness around relationships and dating . Some 27 % of all social networking site users have unfriended or blocked someone who was flirting in a way that made them feel uncomfortable , and 22 % have unfriended or blocked someone that they were once in a relationship with . These sites can also serve as a lingering reminder of relationships that have ended—17 % of social networking site users have untagged or deleted photos on these sites of themselves and someone they used to be in a relationship with . Not surprisingly , young adults—who have near-universal rates of social networking site use and have spent the bulk of their dating lives in the social media era—are significantly more likely than older social media users to have experienced all three of these situations in the past . And women are more likely than men to have blocked or unfriended someone who was flirting in a way that made them uncomfortable .
Job approval ratings for both Republican and Democratic leaders in Congress are down slightly from mid-summer . Though Republicans may be poised for major gains in the House and Senate in the midterm elections , just 24 % of the public approves of the job being done by the party 's leaders in Congress . That is down from 33 % in July , and equals a low measured at about the same time last year . Disapproval stands at 60 % , matching the number from one year ago . Shortly after Barack Obama took office in 2009 , approval of Republican leaders stood at 34 % . Job performance ratings for Democratic leaders also have slipped since the start of the Obama administration ( from 48 % approval in February 2009 to 30 % currently ) . In July , that rating stood at 35 % . Still , going into the campaign 's final weeks Democrats ' approval ratings are modestly higher than the ratings for Republican leaders .
As Iranians prepare to elect a new president , the country 's international image is largely negative . Majorities in most of 39 countries surveyed have an unfavorable opinion of Iran , and most say Tehran does not respect the personal freedoms of its people . Meanwhile , any nuclear ambitions harbored by the Iranian government continue to draw strong opposition from Western countries , as well as neighboring states in the Middle East .
But clouds loom on the horizon , as overall approval of Obama 's international policies and confidence in the American president have declined around the globe since 2009 . Among Obama 's biggest problems is his administration 's drone campaign against extremist leaders and organizations . Majorities in virtually every country surveyed in 2012 oppose this policy , which is a key component of American anti-terrorism efforts . Opposition is especially prevalent in Muslim countries – at least eight-in-ten in Egypt , Jordan and Turkey are against drone strikes – but about three-quarters in Spain , Japan , Mexico and Brazil are also against drones , as are 63 % in France and 59 % in Germany .
Men are now much more likely than women to say they have `` quite a lot '' of confidence in the future of the United States , according to an April survey by Pew Research Center . About half of men ( 53 % ) and just 29 % of women say this .
As was the case in September , more Americans ( 49 % ) say their bigger concern is that the government 's anti-terrorism policies have not gone far enough to adequately protect the country than that the policies have gone too far in restricting the average person 's civil liberties ( 37 % ) . This represents a change from July 2013 , after Snowden 's NSA leaks , when 47 % said they were more concerned about civil liberties than inadequate protection against terrorism ( 35 % ) . The current state of opinion is closer to views between 2004 and 2010 , when the public consistently expressed more concern about adequate anti-terrorism protection than restriction of the average person 's civil liberties . The shift in opinion since July 2013 has occurred across the board . By nearly two-to-one , Republicans are more concerned about anti-terrorism policies not going far enough to protect the country ( 57 % ) than about these policies placing too many restrictions on civil liberties ( 30 % ) . In July 2013 , by 43 % to 38 % , more Republicans expressed greater concern that anti-terror policies had infringed on civil liberties .
Looking ahead , new Pew Research Center U.S. population projections show that if current demographic trends continue , future immigrants and their descendants will be an even bigger source of population growth . Between 2015 and 2065 , they are projected to account for 88 % of the U.S. population increase , or 103 million people , as the nation grows to 441 million . Immigration since 1965 has swelled the nation 's foreign-born population from 9.6 million then to a record 45 million in 2015.1 ( The current immigrant population is lower than the 59 million total who arrived since 1965 because of deaths and departures from the U.S. ) 2 By 2065 , the U.S. will have 78 million immigrants , according to the new Pew Research population projections . Between 1965 and 2015 , new immigrants , their children and their grandchildren accounted for 55 % of U.S. population growth . They added 72 million people to the nation 's population as it grew from 193 million in 1965 to 324 million in 2015 .
A similar pattern emerges when it comes to a variety of religious concepts , such as miracles , the existence of the soul , or fate . For most religious beliefs mentioned in the survey , the Czech Republic has among the lowest levels of belief in the region , and typically falls far below the regional median . For example , 19 % of Czechs believe in hell , compared with a regional median of 54 % – which includes roughly six-in-ten adults in Poland ( 62 % ) and Croatia ( 60 % ) . But that does not mean that the country is entirely devoid of religious or supernatural beliefs . Despite relatively low levels of belief in each concept , a majority of the Czech public ( 65 % ) believes in at least one of the nine concepts included in the survey ( belief in God plus the eight items in the accompanying chart ) . Even among religiously unaffiliated Czechs , 52 % believe in at least one of the concepts , including about a third ( 32 % ) who believe in fate ( i.e. , that the course of one 's life is largely or wholly preordained ) . And Czechs overall are much more likely to believe in the existence of the soul and fate than they are to believe in God .
Among the only groups who feel like they 're winning are well-educated Democrats . Those with at least a college degree are more likely to say they feel like their side is winning ( 51 % ) than say it 's losing ( 41 % ) . In general , younger people are more likely than older people to feel their side is winning : About a third of those under 50 ( 30 % ) say their side wins more than it loses compared with 20 % of those 50 and older . Older Republicans are more likely than younger Republicans to see their side as losing in politics today . Still , a majority of Republicans under 30 ( 69 % ) do hold this view , and they are much more likely to say this than their Democratic counterparts . Just half of young Democrats say this .
These trends are going to put a lot of pressure on Japan 's working-age population down the line . By 2050 , there will be 72 elderly people ( ages 65 and older ) for every 100 people of working age , doubling the 2010 ratio of 36 per 100 . Indeed , Japan 's old-age dependency ratio is among the highest in the world . Looking at other top economies , Japan 's not alone . Germany 's ratio is projected to be 60 per 100 in 2050 , France 's is 44 , China 's is 39 , and the U.S. 's is 36 .
First , many people who use smartphones are unaware that the apps and browsers on their devices involve using the internet . In the Center 's survey of emerging economies , as many as 38 % of those who say they do not use the internet also indicate that they have a phone that connects to the internet . Due to differences in internet use across these countries , this group represents as much as 14 % of the total adult population in South Africa , or as little as 3 % in Venezuela .
The Supreme Court 's pair of decisions on same-sex marriage was the public 's top news story of the week . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) very closely followed the coverage of these rulings . Fewer ( 19 % ) followed the court 's decision on the 1965 Voting Rights Act . Relative to other major Supreme Court decisions of the last four years , news about the rulings on same-sex marriage attracted about as much interest as the 2012 decision on Arizona 's immigration law ( 29 % very closely ) , but attracted far less attention than the court 's judgment to uphold most provisions of the Affordable Care Act . In June 2012 , 45 % of the public followed this story very closely . Public interest in the court 's decision to overturn parts of the Voting Rights Act ranks in the middle of the pack among major court decisions since 2009 .
Meanwhile , American views of Germany 's leader have remained positive . Since Pew Research Center first asked about Angela Merkel in the U.S. in 2006 , three main findings have stood out . First , positive ratings for Merkel have consistently outweighed negative ones , and this was true again in the 2017 survey , when 56 % expressed confidence in her to do the right thing in world affairs , while just 31 % lacked confidence . Second , Merkel has become better known – as recently as 2012 , 31 % of Americans had no opinion about the German leader , but in 2017 only 14 % offered no opinion . Third , a partisan divide has emerged over Merkel . In 2012 , there was virtually no difference between Democrats and Republicans , but in 2017 64 % of Democrats had confidence in the chancellor , compared with only 50 % among Republicans .
Because Spanish is the most common language spoken by Americans except for English , the pope will find a large share of his parishioners able to understand his message . A majority of all Hispanic adults identify as Catholic and a large majority of Hispanic Catholics speak Spanish fluently , according to our 2013 National Survey of Latinos . Eight-in-ten Hispanic Catholics use mostly Spanish or are bilingual . In fact , they are more likely to be Spanish speakers than non-Catholic Hispanics ( 68 % ) .
Roughly half of Americans ( 49 % ) believe the share of people with the coronavirus is higher in the U.S. than in most other nations , 18 % believe the U.S. share is lower and about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) think the U.S. experience is about the same as most other nations . More Democrats ( 66 % , including leaners ) than Republicans ( 30 % , including leaners ) think the share of people with COVID-19 is higher in the U.S. than most other nations .
Since the Great Recession , there has been dramatic growth in the number of foreign students who are newly enrolled at U.S. colleges and universities through F-1 visas . There were nearly 364,000 such students in 2016 , more than double the number in 2008 . This 104 % growth rate compares with a growth rate of 3.4 % in overall college enrollment during the same period . The number of foreign students on F-1 visas grew sharply at both public and private academic institutions , but it grew more quickly at public colleges and universities than at private ones ( 107 % vs. 98 % growth between 2008 and 2016 ) .
Despite speculation that the Democratic base has become increasingly disillusioned with Barack Obama , rank-and-file Democrats are not eager to see other candidates challenge him for their party 's nomination in 2012 . Just 32 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say they would like other Democrats to take on Obama for the nomination , while 59 % say they would not .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu receives extremely negative ratings from nations in the Middle East and North Africa . Only 7 % in both Tunisia and Turkey , 1 % in Jordan and 0 % in Lebanon have a favorable view of Netanyahu . And the negative opinion in Jordan and Lebanon is particularly intense ; 95 % of Jordanians and 97 % of Lebanese say they have a very unfavorable view .
Leave takers with lower incomes are far less likely than those with higher incomes to receive pay when they take time off from work for family or medical reasons . Among all who took family or medical leave in the past two years , 47 % say they received their regular pay , while 16 % say they received only partial pay and 36 % say they received no pay . But among leave takers with annual household incomes under $ 30,000 , 62 % say they received no pay , compared with 26 % of those with household incomes of at least $ 75,000 .
The Obama administration deported a record 438,421 unauthorized immigrants in fiscal year 2013 , continuing a streak of stepped up enforcement that has resulted in more than 2 million deportations since Obama took office , newly released Department of Homeland Security data show .
The public does not believe Europe 's financial crisis presents much of a threat to the U.S. economy . Last December , Pew Research asked about the seriousness of several possible threats to the U.S. economy . Fully 76 % said the size of the national debt posed a major threat to U.S. economic well-being . Fewer than half ( 46 % ) said Europe 's economic problems represented a major threat . In terms of foreign threats , far more viewed economic competition from China as a major concern than the European crisis .
Taking the median percentages across the 28 countries surveyed in both 2007 and 2014 , there has been a shift toward concerns about religious and ethnic hatred as the world 's top problem , especially in the Middle East . Meanwhile , in Europe , more publics now see inequality as the world 's top problem compared to seven years ago , before the Great Recession and Eurocrisis . Overall , in the 28 countries surveyed in 2007 and 2014 , religious and ethnic hatred , along with inequality , are seen as the most pressing issues for the world , with the spread of nuclear weapons not far behind . Fewer people within these countries say pollution and AIDS are the biggest threat .
A third of the social media users who are single and looking and who say they see others ' posts about their love life say that seeing these posts makes them feel worse . This compares with 62 % who report that such posts by others do not make much of a difference in how they feel about their own dating life . Just 4 % say it makes them feel better .
Last week , foreign news dominated the public 's news interest with more than seven-in-ten saying they tracked either news about Japan ( 57 % ) or about allied air strikes in Libya ( 15 % ) more closely than any other news . That is rarely the case for this index , which measures public interest in a wide range of stories . In mid-October of last year , 40 % said the dramatic rescue of a crew of Chilean miners trapped in an underground mine was their top story of the week . Despite the fast approaching congressional elections , nothing else came close .
News about gas and oil prices and a series of deadly storms in the U.S. South topped the public 's news interest last week . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say they followed news about the powerful storms and tornadoes most closely , while 24 % say their top story was rising fuel prices . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say they followed news about the royal wedding most closely , while 8 % say they followed the White House release of Barack Obama 's Hawaiian birth certificate this closely .
Russians ' views toward the U.S. briefly improved after the election of Donald Trump , but they have fallen to levels last seen near the end of the Obama administration . Only 26 % of Russians now have a favorable view of the U.S. , down from 41 % in 2017 . Among Americans , just 21 % see Russia favorably , similar to the share who had a favorable view after Russia 's 2014 annexation of Crimea ( 19 % ) .
Moreover , many around the world also associate negative characteristics with the American people . Half or more in 10 countries think Americans are arrogant and many say they are greedy . Interestingly , most in the U.S. say Americans are arrogant ( 55 % ) and greedy ( 57 % ) . Fewer describe Americans as violent , although half or more express this opinion in Australia ( 68 % ) , Greece ( 63 % ) , the UK ( 57 % ) , Spain ( 55 % ) , Canada ( 53 % ) and China ( 52 % ) . A sizable share in the U.S. – 42 % – also says Americans are violent . Public opinion in the U.S. divides sharply along partisan lines : 50 % of Democrats and 44 % of independents characterize Americans as violent , compared with just 29 % of Republicans .
Millennials have fewer attachments to traditional political and religious institutions , but they connect to personalized networks of friends , colleagues and affinity groups through social and digital media . Half of Millennials now describe themselves as political independents and 29 % are not affiliated with any religion—numbers that are at or near the highest levels of political and religious disaffiliation recorded for any generation in the last quarter-century .
Opinion on whether or not Republican and Democratic voters can agree on basic facts differs by race and ethnicity . Whites ( 82 % ) are far more likely than blacks ( 70 % ) or Hispanics ( 64 % ) to say that voters can not agree on basic facts . And while about a third ( 34 % ) of Hispanics and 26 % of blacks say that voters of both major parties can agree on basic facts , fewer whites ( 17 % ) say the same . Younger Americans are less likely than older Americans to say that the two parties can not agree on basic facts . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 say Republican and Democratic voters can not agree on basic facts . In contrast , those ages 30 to 49 ( 78 % ) , 50 to 64 ( 80 % ) and 65 and older ( 83 % ) are much more likely to say the same thing . And while nearly one-third of 18- to 29-year-olds ( 29 % ) say that partisans do agree on basic facts , just 16 % of those 65 and older say the same .
Across 33 nations surveyed in 2019 , a median of 55 % disapproved of the U.S. allowing fewer immigrants into the country ; just 34 % approved . A median of six-in-ten opposed building a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border . And majorities opposed Trump 's efforts to erect trade barriers in addition to physical barriers , with a median of nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) disapproving of increased U.S. tariffs or fees on imported goods .
The regions of origin for immigrant populations residing in the U.S. have dramatically shifted since the passage of the 1965 Immigration and Naturalization Act . In 1960 , 84 % of immigrants living in the U.S. were born in Europe , Canada or other North American countries , while only 6 % were from Mexico , 4 % from Asia , 3 % from the rest of Latin America and 3 % from other areas . Immigrant origins now differ drastically , with European , Canadian and other North American immigrants making up only a small share of the foreign-born population ( 13 % ) in 2018 . Asians ( 28 % ) , Mexicans ( 25 % ) and other Latin Americans ( 25 % ) each make up about a quarter of the U.S. immigrant population , followed by 9 % who were born in another region .
Opinion also differs across party lines . Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 78 % ) see stricter environmental laws as worth the cost , while a majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 58 % ) say stricter environmental regulations cost too many jobs and hurt the economy .
While Obama 's personal favorability ratings are even higher than his job approval – 64 % have a favorable impression of the president – the public has an even more positive opinion of Michelle Obama : 72 % view the first lady favorably , while just 22 % view her unfavorably . Still , she remains far less positively viewed among Republicans and Republican leaners ( 44 % favorable ) than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 93 % favorable ) . In particular , conservative Republicans are more likely to have an unfavorable view of the first lady than a favorable one ( 52 % vs. 33 % ) .
As noted in previous reports , desktop computer ownership has fallen slightly since 2006 , as laptops have gained in popularity .3 Currently 59 % of all adults own a desktop computer , and 52 % own a laptop ( 76 % own a computer overall ) .
But global publics tend to believe that China will surpass the U.S. to become the world 's leading superpower . A median of 49 % say China will eventually replace or has replaced the U.S. as the world 's leading superpower ; 34 % disagree . This view is shared across all regions surveyed – Europe , the Middle East , Latin America , Africa and Asia . This is especially true among some of America 's top European allies . Across the seven European Union nations polled , a median of 60 % think China will or already has replaced the U.S. ; only 33 % say this will never happen .
While young Hispanics are furthest from the 2020 goal , there are large gaps between U.S.-born and foreign-born Hispanics . U.S.-born Hispanics are twice as likely as their foreign-born counterparts to have completed at least an associate degree ( 34 % vs. 17 % ) . In fact , the attainment rate of young U.S.-born Hispanics is on par with that of young blacks ( 35 % ) . It 's important to note that many young foreign-born Hispanics have recently arrived in the U.S. from countries with lower average levels of education than the U.S. Conversely , young foreign-born Asians are more likely than their U.S.-born counterparts to have completed at least an associate degree . This is largely due to the fact that many of these young Asian immigrants hail from nations that have higher educational attainment levels than the U.S. overall .
Democrats are about twice as likely as Republicans to have received food stamps at some point in their lives—a participation gap that echoes the deep partisan divide in the U.S. House of Representatives , which on Thursday produced a farm bill that did not include funding for the food stamp program . Overall , a Pew Research Center survey conducted late last year found that about one-in-five Americans ( 18 % ) has participated in the food stamp program , formally known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program . About a quarter ( 26 % ) lives in a household with a current or former food stamp recipient . Of these , about one-in-five ( 22 % ) of Democrats say they had received food stamps compared with 10 % of Republicans . About 17 % of political independents say they have received food stamps .
When it comes to international perceptions of Russia , a majority of Russians say their country should be more respected around the world . Roughly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) say Russia does not get enough respect , with only about half that ( 32 % ) saying Russia is as respected around the world as it should be . These sentiments are largely unchanged since 2017 , but since 2012 , feelings that Russia is as respected as it should be have doubled .
For multimedia – downloading music and streaming ( defined as listening to or watching audio/video clips ) – there are substantial gaps between broadband users and the two categories of dial-up users . Although experienced dial-up users who want broadband are twice as likely other dial-up users to stream , broadband users are still far and away most likely to stream on a typical day . And broadband users are easily the most active group when it comes to downloading music on the average day .
The dependency ratio—the number of people of working age , compared with the number of young and elderly—will rise sharply , mainly because of growth in the elderly population . There were 59 children and elderly people per 100 adults of working age in 2005 . That will rise to 72 dependents per 100 adults of working age in 2050 .
Nonetheless , Muslims generally are no less supportive of keeping religion separate from government policy than are people in other countries . Indeed , in predominantly Muslim countries with secular traditions , such as Turkey , Senegal and Mali , roughly seven-in-ten respondents completely agreed that religion should be kept separate from government policy . In the U.S. , significantly fewer ( 55 % ) expressed that view .
However , open borders is not the same as no borders . Fewer than one-in-five Ukrainians ( 12 % ) and Russians ( 16 % ) think the two countries should unite as a single state . Those living in Ukraine 's East ( 26 % ) and South ( 19 % ) are somewhat more enthusiastic about the idea of reuniting Ukraine and Russia , but support falls to the single digits in the country 's Center ( 5 % ) and West ( 1 % ) . Similarly , a 32 % -minority of Russian-speakers think the two countries should merge , compared with just 9 % among Ukrainian-speakers . At least in the days leading up to Viktor Yanukovych 's removal from office , events in Ukraine had yet to boost enthusiasm for a single Ukrainian-Russian state . In both countries , support for a unified state has remained relatively flat over the past six years . In 2008 , 20 % of Ukrainians backed such a move , compared with 12 % today . In Russia , attitudes have changed even less : in 2008 , 19 % backed reunification vs. 16 % today .
About three-in-four ( 74 % ) Pakistanis said that education is equally important for girls and boys , while just 17 % considered it more important for boys and 7 % believed it is more important for girls .
When it came to re-adjusting to civilian life , half of veterans told the Post/Kaiser it was somewhat or very difficult ; 49 % said it was somewhat or very easy . That was roughly the same as the Pew Research survey found in 2011 , with 44 % reporting difficulty in readjustment .
Among all registered voters , Democrats hold an edge in congressional elections , with 46 % of voters saying they will vote ( or have already voted ) for the Democratic candidate in their district and 40 % saying they support the Republican candidate . About one-in-ten voters ( 11 % ) are not sure whom they will support . Trump voters and Biden voters overwhelmingly say they support the same party 's candidate for the congressional race in their district ( 83 % of each say they will support a candidate of the same party ) . Voters who support minor-party candidates for president are about evenly divided in their vote for the House of Representatives ( 29 % support the Democrat and 31 % support the Republican ) .
To cover lost wages , many leave takers take on debt or use savings . About eight-in-ten leave takers ( 78 % ) who took unpaid or partially paid family or medical leave say they cut back on their spending to compensate for lost wages or salary . Substantial shares also say they used savings set aside for something else ( 50 % ) , used savings set aside for the reason they took leave ( 45 % ) , cut their leave short ( 41 % ) or took on debt ( 37 % ) . A third say they put off paying bills and about a quarter say they borrowed money from family or friends ( 24 % ) or received money they were n't expected to pay back ( 23 % ) . Nearly one-in-five ( 17 % ) say they went on public assistance to cover the lost wages or salary .
From the onset of the Great Recession in 2007 through 2014 , the U.S. Hispanic population had an annual average growth rate of 2.8 % , compared with an average 4.4 % growth each year from 2000 to 2007 . As a result , in terms of growth rate , Hispanics – once the nation 's fastest-growing population – have now slipped behind Asians , whose population grew at an average annual rate of 3.4 % between 2007 and 2014 .
Americans have several complaints about the federal tax system , most notably the impression that some corporations and wealthy people do n't pay their fair share . Almost two-thirds ( 64 % ) say they are bothered a lot by the feeling that some corporations are n't paying what 's fair in federal taxes , and 61 % say the same about some wealthy people . Just 20 % say they are bothered a lot by the feeling that some poor people do n't pay their fair share . A greater share – 44 % – say the complexity of the tax system bothers them a lot . Democrats are more likely to complain about corporations and the wealthy not paying their share , while Republicans register more irritation with the system 's complexity , the amount they pay , and some poor people not paying their fair share .
Middle-aged and older Americans have positive views of economic conditions . Roughly six-in-ten people ages 30 to 49 ( 61 % ) and 50 and older ( 59 % ) say the economy is very or somewhat good . And about half ( 49 % ) of Americans ages 18 to 29 agree .
Responses to this question again diverge by age . While 37 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 38 % of those ages 30 to 49 say it is it is very or somewhat important to get information from the campaigns , the share jumps to 58 % among those 65 and older .
Nearly half ( 46 % ) of American adults are smartphone owners as of February 2012 , an increase of 11 percentage points over the 35 % of Americans who owned a smartphone last May . As in 2011 , our definition of a smartphone owner includes anyone who said yes to either of the following two questions : Taken together , just over half of cell owners ( 53 % ) said yes to one or both of these questions and are classified as smartphone owners . Since 88 % of US adults are now cell phone owners , that means that a total of 46 % of all American adults are smartphone users . Two in five adults ( 41 % ) own a cell phone that is not a smartphone , meaning that smartphone owners are now more prevalent within the overall population than owners of more basic mobile phones .
Black Americans are far more likely than the other two groups to feel that the misunderstanding is based on their race or some other demographic trait . Among black adults who think the news media do not understand people like them , about a third ( 34 % ) say the main way they are misunderstood is their personal characteristics . This is far higher than the 10 % of white adults and 17 % of Hispanic adults who say the same . White Americans , on the other hand , are far more likely than the other groups to say the problem stems from political misunderstandings . Of white adults who say news organizations misunderstand them , nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say it 's mostly based on their political views . About a quarter of Hispanic Americans say the same , and both groups are higher than black Americans ( 15 % ) .
Fewer cite other considerations as major reasons why they identify with their party . About half of Democrats ( 51 % ) and 45 % of Republicans cite having a lot in common with other members of their party as a major reason .
YouTube and Facebook are the most-widely used online platforms , and its user base is most broadly representative of the population as a whole . Smaller shares of Americans use sites such as Twitter , Pinterest , Instagram and LinkedIn .
Although still quite young , ( CNN , the granddaddy of the group , is just 26 years old ) cable news is no longer the new kid on the information-delivery block , but rather a rapidly maturing medium whose overall audience appears to be leveling off . Still in the heated cable news ratings wars , the big winner continues to be the Fox News Channel , which generates more primetime viewers than CNN and MSNBC combined .
About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) online adults have heard of The Colbert Report , and 10 % get news there . More people have heard of the Comedy Central show than many other news sources , including NPR ( 53 % ) , The Economist ( 34 % ) and BuzzFeed ( 31 % ) . But The Colbert Report is not as well-known as top cable news channels , broadcast television networks and major national newspapers . Although its audience is not as large as major TV networks , the show attracts a following similar to some national newspapers : One-in-ten ( 10 % ) online adults said they got news from the show in the previous week , on par with such sources as the Wall Street Journal and USA Today . Younger males are the most likely to use and trust The Colbert Report as a source of news about government and politics . In our recent survey of online adults , nearly a quarter ( 22 % ) of 18- to 29- year-old males say they got news about politics and government from The Colbert Report in the previous week . That is more than twice that of 18- to 29- year-old women and significantly higher than any other age group . Also , these younger males are more likely to trust The Colbert Report as a source of political news ; almost three-in-ten say that they trust it , more than any other age group .
The public showed only modest interest in the week 's other top stories , continuing a trend seen throughout much of 2011 . A series of major breaking news stories – including the shootings in Tucson , the upheaval in the Middle East , the disasters in Japan and the killing of Osama bin Laden – has dominated the news agenda for both the media and the public this year . And that has routinely resulted in less public attention to other news , such as the debate in Washington over how to address the federal deficit and long-term debt and the early stages of the 2012 presidential campaign .
In many countries surveyed , the United States is viewed as an important ally . In Israel , 82 % name the U.S. as the country they can most rely on as a dependable ally in the future . Across the Asia-Pacific region , around two-thirds or more cite the U.S. as a top ally in Japan ( 63 % ) , the Philippines ( 64 % ) and South Korea ( 71 % ) . In fact , in every country surveyed , more name the U.S. than China – though opinion is relatively divided in several countries .
Rural Indians prefer the BJP , despite Congress ' long ties to the rural poor . The Congress party has long drawn much of its support from rural Indians and has pursued policies to solidify that backing , such as the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and the National Food Security program , both of which Indians overwhelmingly favor . Nevertheless , rural Indians favor the BJP , not Congress , to lead the next government by more than three-to-one ( 64 % to 18 % ) , roughly the same proportion as favor the BJP in urban areas .
With this in mind , some of the groups that have already been growing in recent years may be primed for continued growth . This includes people with no religious affiliation : The median age of adults who say their religion is `` nothing in particular '' is 38 , while for atheists and agnostics it is 34 .
While most voters express at least some confidence in these four aspects of the presidential election , relatively small shares are very confident of each . For example , only about four-in-ten say they are very confident that people who are legally qualified and want to vote will be able to cast a ballot in the election , while only 22 % say they are very confident that once the votes are counted it will be clear who won the election .
The European Union 's unemployment rate has dropped to its lowest point in almost a decade , though joblessness still varies widely among the 28 countries that make up the bloc , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from Eurostat , Europe 's statistical agency . The EU unemployment rate was 7.1 % in the first quarter of 2018 , the most recent quarter for which data for all countries are available . That was nearly on par with the 6.8 % rate recorded in the first quarter of 2008 , before the European financial crisis began . Europe 's unemployment rate reached a recent high of 11 % in the first and second quarters of 2013 . The steady decline since then reflects steady economic improvement in many EU countries . Europe 's overall unemployment rate fluctuated during the EU financial crisis , which spanned two recessions . Unemployment steadily increased as economic output fell during the first recession , which lasted from the second quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2009 . Unemployment then continued to increase while output stayed flat through the second recession , which lasted from the fourth quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2013 . Although output grew in the roughly two years between the recessions , unemployment still trended up during this period .
The Center survey found broad acceptance of evolution across publics . A median of 74 % say humans and other living things have evolved over time , while a median of just 21 % say humans and other living things have existed in their present form since the beginning of time . Eight-in-ten or more in Japan , Spain , Sweden , the Czech Republic , France and Germany say humans and other living things have evolved over time , as do majorities elsewhere . Malaysia is the only public in which the balance of opinion is the opposite ( 43 % vs. 55 % saying humans and other living things have existed in their present form since the beginning of time ) .
On the other side , only 29 % of Turks say they should use force to defend their ally , with around a quarter undecided ( 23 % ) . Because of the relatively high number of undecided people in Turkey on this question , the percentage saying that they should defend a NATO ally is much lower than the 8 country NATO median ( 48 % ) .
As federal spending cuts take effect and the stock market has reached record highs , the public continues to say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy . Overall , 58 % say they have been hearing mixed economic news ; a third ( 33 % ) have been hearing mostly bad news about the economy , while just 7 % say they have been hearing mostly good news . Views of economic news are little changed in recent months .
China and Japan – neighboring economic and military powers – view each other with disdain , harbor mostly negative stereotypes of one another , disagree on Japan 's World War II legacy and worry about future confrontations . Today , only 11 % of the Japanese express a favorable opinion of China , while 14 % of the Chinese say they have a positive view of Japan . In both countries positive views of the other nation have decreased since 2006 .
However , it 's not the case . When we took a closer look at the most recent American Community Survey data , we found that 57 % of young married couples ( where the wife is younger than 30 ) are in a dual-income marriage , compared with 62 % of couples in their 30s and 40s . These young couples also are more likely than older ones to include a breadwinner husband and homemaker wife ( 32 % do ) .
Sizable minorities of cultural Catholics also participate in some of the church 's rituals . For instance , about a third of cultural Catholics ( 32 % ) say they attend Mass at least once a year , and roughly a quarter ( 26 % ) say they receive Holy Communion at least sometimes when they attend Mass . A third ( 33 % ) say they gave something up or did something extra for Lent this year , and about four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say it would be important to them to receive the sacrament of the anointing of the sick ( sometimes part of `` last rites '' ) if they were seriously ill .
Overwhelming majorities of both Biden and Trump supporters said in October that a victory by the other candidate would lead to lasting harm to the nation . Nine-in-ten Biden voters said this about the prospect of a Trump victory , and 89 % of Trump voters said it about the prospect of a Biden win . And around eight-in-ten in both camps said Biden and Trump supporters not only disagree over politics and policies , but that they also disagree over core American values and goals .
Public interest in the Iraq war remained high last week as the country marked the fourth anniversary of the conflict , and the House of Representatives passed a controversial war funding bill . At the same time the fallout from the firing of eight U.S. attorneys by the Justice Department failed to gain much traction with the public , in spite of intense media coverage of the story . Beyond Iraq , the public divided its attention fairy evenly among the other top stories of the week – a missing Boy Scout found alive in North Carolina , news about the 2008 presidential campaign , medical care for wounded Iraq war veterans , and the U.S. attorney story . The third week into the U.S. attorney story , public interest increased only marginally , and the gap between coverage of the story and public attentiveness remained substantial . Only 20 % of the public paid very close attention to news about the firings , and 8 % said it was the story they followed most closely ( unchanged from last week ) . Fully 18 % of news coverage for the week was devoted to this story . One in five Americans paid very close attention to news about the 2008 candidates and 17 % closely followed news about Elizabeth Edwards ' recurrence of cancer . Roughly one-in-ten Americans ( 9 % ) said they followed the campaign more closely than any other major news story , and another 7 % said they followed the Edwards news most closely .
Many Germans see the U.S. as a top foreign policy partner ; fewer Americans feel the same way about Germany . When asked which countries are their most important partners in global affairs , Germans name France more than any other country , but the U.S. is in the second spot . More than four-in-ten Germans say the U.S. is either their country 's first or second most important partner . Americans are much less likely to see Germany this way : Only 12 % name Germany as one of America 's top two partners . Still , Germany does make the top four , trailing Great Britain and China and tying with Israel .
Younger women are especially likely to report having troublesome interactions on online dating platforms . About three-in-ten or more online dating users say someone continued to contact them on a dating site or app after they said they were not interested ( 37 % ) , sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did n't ask for ( 35 % ) or called them an offensive name ( 28 % ) . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say another user has threated to physically harm them . These rates are even higher among younger women . Six-in-ten female users ages 18 to 34 say someone on a dating site or app continued to contact them after they said they were not interested , while 57 % report that another user has sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did n't ask for . At the same time , 44 % report that someone called them an offense name on a dating site or app , while 19 % say they have had someone threaten to physically harm them .
Nearly half ( 47 % ) of Filipino Americans ages 25 or older have earned at least a bachelor 's degree , compared with 28.2 % of all Americans in that age group .
Several recent high-profile incidents have illustrated some of the more severe experiences many women face online , from insults hurled at female journalists to the release of private nude photos of female celebrities . A new Pew Research Center survey reveals that while men are somewhat more likely to experience any form of online harassment , women report higher levels of emotional stress from their experiences and differ in their attitudes toward the underlying causes of such incidents . There are also gender differences in views of online harassment as a public issue . Seven-in-ten women ( 70 % ) say they see online harassment as a major problem , compared with 54 % of men . Younger women – those ages 18 to 29 – are especially likely to say this : More than eight-in-ten ( 83 % ) say it is a major problem , compared with 55 % of men in the same age group . Women are also much more likely than men to say people should be able to feel welcome and safe in online spaces ( 63 % to 43 % ) , while men are more likely than women to say it is important for people to be able to speak their minds freely online ( 56 % to 36 % ) . Similarly , half of women say that offensive content online is too often excused as not being a big deal , whereas 64 % of men – and 73 % of men ages 18 to 29 – say that many people take this type of content too seriously .
The economy remains the most frequently mentioned problem facing the nation , but an increasing proportion of Americans cite health care . Currently , 55 % mention the economy in general or one of several specific economic problems , such as unemployment or the financial crisis . In February , 80 % mentioned the economy , the highest percentage in more than 20 years of Pew 's surveys . Meanwhile , mentions of health care as the top national problem have risen from just 3 % in February to 20 % today . The last time health care was cited this often was June 1994 , during the congressional debate over health care reform in Bill Clinton 's first term . There is little difference in the percentage of Democrats ( 26 % ) and Republicans ( 20 % ) citing health care as an important national problem .
Online employment resources now rival personal and professional networks as a top source of job information for Americans who are looking for work . Roughly one-third of Americans have looked for a new job in the last two years , and 79 % of these job seekers utilized online resources in their most recent search for employment . That is higher than the proportion who made use of close personal connections ( 66 % ) or professional contacts ( 63 % ) and more than twice the proportion who utilized employment agencies , print advertisements , or jobs fairs and other events . Taken together , 80 % of recent job seekers made use of professional contacts , close friends or family , and/or more distant personal connections in their most recent search for employment – nearly identical to the 79 % who utilized resources and information they found online . Indeed , 34 % of these job seekers say resources and information they found online were the most important resource available to them in their most recent job search , which places the internet just behind personal and professional networks of all types on the list of Americans ' most important job resources . In total , 45 % of recent job seekers indicate that personal or professional contacts of any kind were the most important resource they utilized in their last search for employment : 20 % cite close personal connections as their most important source of assistance , 17 % cite professional or work contacts , and 7 % cite more distant personal acquaintances .
Optimism about the potential for establishing democracy in Iraq has declined sharply . In several surveys since last July , consistent majorities of Americans ­ including 57 % in December and 55 % as recently as last month ­ had said they believed that the U.S. will succeed in establishing a stable democratic government in Iraq . But today fewer than half ( 49 % ) say that success is probable .
Not all issues divided the country along partisan lines . Americans across the political spectrum expressed rising worry about North Korea 's nuclear program following a series of increasingly advanced missile tests by the secretive Asian nation and an escalating war of words between Trump and the country 's leader , Kim Jong Un . Three-quarters of Americans said in October that they view North Korea 's nuclear program as a `` major threat '' to the U.S. , up from 64 % in January and as high a share as at any point since 2005 . Majorities in both parties said the U.S. should take the North 's threats very seriously ; that the North is really willing to follow through on its threats to use nuclear weapons against the U.S. ; and that the North is capable of launching a missile that could reach the U.S. An overwhelming majority of Americans also said they believed Trump is `` really willing '' to use military force against North Korea .
Eastern Europeans are more likely than Western Europeans to agree that the state is run for the benefit of all . Majorities in four Eastern European countries surveyed – Slovakia ( 88 % ) , the Czech Republic ( 79 % ) , Hungary ( 74 % ) and Poland ( 56 % ) – believe the state is run for the benefit of all . This view is shared by majorities in only two Western European countries , Sweden ( 73 % ) and the Netherlands ( 70 % ) .
The overall U.S. birth rate declined to a record low in 2011 , but newly-released government data showed remarkably different trends for young and older women . Birth rates continued to decline to an all-time low among women in their teens and early 20s , while rising to the highest level in four decades among women in their early 40s . The final data for 2011 from the National Center for Health Statistics ( NCHS ) confirm the record-low birth rate ( 63.2 births per 1,000 women ages 15 - 44 ) shown in preliminary data released last fall , and offer the first details about trends for different demographic groups . During the period from 2010 to 2011 , birth rates among teens ages 15 - 19 dropped 8 % , and among women ages 20 - 24 declined 5 % —in both cases reaching historic lows in 2011 . At the other end of the age spectrum , the birth rate for women ages 40 - 44 rose 1 % , to 10.3 births per 1,000 women in that age group . The last time the rate came that close was in 1967 , when it was 10.6 .
A majority of Americans ( 69 % ) say a candidate 's sexuality would not affect their support of a presidential candidate . But those who say it would have an impact are much more likely to say it would have a negative than a positive one . About a quarter of the public ( 26 % ) says it would make them less likely to support the hypothetical candidate , compared with 4 % who say it would make them more likely to support that candidate .
The public clearly has doubts that President Maduro is the right man to get Venezuela back on course . A majority ( 57 % ) in the poll says the president has a bad influence on the country 's direction , compared with 40 % who say he has a good influence . By a 55 % to 44 % margin , Venezuelans also say they are dissatisfied with the overall political system . Fortunately for Maduro , the political opposition seems ill-positioned to take advantage of the public 's frustrations . Barely a year after opposition candidate Henrique Capriles fell short in his effort to win the presidency from Maduro by less than one percent , most Venezuelans ( 52 % ) say the opposition has a bad influence on the country 's direction – nearly on par with Maduro 's negative rating .
Similarly , 43 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say their party does an excellent or good job in standing up for traditional GOP positions such as `` reducing the size of government , cutting taxes and promoting conservative social values , '' while 55 % say the party does only a fair or poor job . Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents , conservatives ( 47 % ) are more likely than moderates and liberals ( 36 % ) to express positive opinions about the way the GOP stands up for its traditional positions . And Republicans who strongly approve of Donald Trump 's job performance – a group that makes up 60 % of all Republicans and Republican leaners – are more positive about the party 's advocacy of its traditional positions than are the smaller share of Republicans who approve less strongly of Trump ( 53 % vs. 28 % among those who strongly approve ) .
Europeans are not only the most negative about the present , but also the most pessimistic about the future : A median of 64 % believe that today 's children , when they grow up , will be worse off financially than their parents . The French ( 85 % ) are particularly concerned about the future . Americans ( 60 % ) are almost as worried as the Europeans about prospects for the next generation . More than four-in-ten ( median of 44 % ) in the Middle East think the next generation will be worse off . This includes 52 % of Turks , 47 % of Lebanese and 44 % of Palestinians . But 51 % of Israelis think today 's children will be better off than their parents . Publics in the Asia-Pacific region have a relatively bright view of the future . By nearly two-to-one , they are optimistic about financial prospects for the next generation : A median of 51 % say today 's kids will be better off , while just 24 % believe they will be worse off . The Vietnamese ( 91 % ) and Chinese ( 88 % ) are particularly hopeful . The Asians with the greatest doubts are the Japanese : Just 18 % are hopeful for the next generation .
According to Pew Research Center 's most recent estimate based on the 2011 American Community Survey , there were 1.89 million Cubans and 1.95 million Salvadorans living in the U.S. Statistically speaking , those two estimates are indistinguishable from each other , and it 's been that way since 2008 .
As the long presidential campaign winds down , GOP nominee Donald Trump 's claims that the process is `` rigged '' against him – and suggestions that he might not accept the result as legitimate if he loses – seem to have struck a chord with his supporters . In a recent Pew Research Center survey , 56 % of Trump voters said they have little or no confidence that the election will be `` open and fair , '' compared with 11 % of Hillary Clinton backers . Among those who say they strongly back Trump , nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) say they have little or no confidence that the election will be fair .
Evangelicals cite other reasons for supporting him beyond opposition to Clinton . Roughly one-third of evangelical Trump supporters also pointed to his issue positions as the main reason they support him , and about one-quarter ( 26 % ) mentioned his status as a political outsider who will bring change to the political system as a reason for backing him . One-in-five said they support him because of his personality and `` tell-it-like-it-is '' style .
In some countries , the regularity with which people interact with those of different racial or ethnic groups varied based on their own racial or ethnic identity . For example , in South Africa , where the majority of the population is black , 75 % of white South Africans ( who are in the minority ) reported interactions with people of different racial and ethnic groups , while roughly six-in-ten black adults ( 63 % ) said the same .
A majority of Americans ( 55 % ) view reducing crime as a top priority for the president and Congress . This represents a sharp increase from recent years . In 2011 , just 44 % said crime was a top priority . While up over the past two years , the percentage calling crime a top priority still pales in comparison to the percentages saying this in the 1990s and early 2000s . In 1994 , for example , 78 % said reducing crime should be a top priority , making it first among the items tested on that survey .
While there is a sizable partisan gap in ratings of the national economy , even among Republicans fewer than half view economic conditions with favor . Currently , 46 % of Republicans , and just 24 % of independents and 15 % of Democrats , give the economy at least a good rating .
There was a wide and consistent gender gap in opinions about the relative strengths of male and female political leaders on five attributes tested in our survey , though most men and women said there is no gender difference on these traits . One of the largest gender gaps was on the ability to work out compromises : 41 % of women compared with 27 % of men said women are better at this . Women also were more likely than men to say female leaders surpass men in being honest and ethical , working to improve quality of life for Americans , standing up for their beliefs despite political pressure , and being persuasive . The survey also asked about gender differences among leaders on various policy issues , and found less-pronounced differences among male and female respondents .
When asked about how Trump makes important decisions , the public continues to say he is `` too impulsive . '' In April 2017 , shortly after he began his presidency , 63 % of the public said Trump was impulsive when making important decisions . Today , a similar share ( 61 % ) says this . A third of the public says Trump 's temperament is about right when making important decisions ; only 4 % say he is too cautious when making decisions . Two-thirds of Republicans ( 66 % ) say Trump is about right when making important decisions ; 31 % say he is too impulsive . A substantial majority of Democrats ( 86 % ) say Trump is too impulsive , while just 8 % say he is about right in making key decisions .
Today , 73 % of Republicans and Republican leaners are very or somewhat confident in Trump 's ability to work effectively with Congress , down somewhat from 79 % in April . Similarly , 80 % of Republicans are confident Trump can handle an international crisis ; 85 % said this in April . There has been no significant decline in Republican confidence in Trump to manage the executive branch effectively ( 83 % say this today vs. 84 % in April ) . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , very few have confidence in Trump 's ability across issue areas . Just 15 % of Democrats today say they are confident Trump can work effectively with Congress , down from 24 % in April . There have also been declines in the already small shares of Democrats who have confidence in Trump to manage the executive branch effectively ( 12 % today , 19 % in April ) or handle an international crisis ( 10 % today , 15 % in April ) . Just 9 % of Democrats say they are very or somewhat confident that Trump can handle the situation with North Korea .
When asked about the household 's financial situation , 41 % of Republicans who voted in all three elections said they `` live comfortably . '' Among Republican drop-off voters 28 % said they live comfortably , as did 30 % of nonvoters . Among Democrats , the pattern is even starker : 37 % of consistent voters said they live comfortably , compared with 27 % of less frequent voters and just 21 % of nonvoters .
By comparison , Buddhists tend to say conflict is less common . For example , 27 % of Buddhists in Singapore , 23 % in Taiwan and 19 % in Japan say their religious beliefs at least sometimes conflict with science . Although 44 % of Buddhists in Malaysia say this occurs at least sometimes , as do 49 % of Buddhists in South Korea . In the same Center study using in-depth interviews , many Buddhists interviewees described science and religion as separate spheres . For example , one Buddhist woman in Singapore ( age 26 ) said , `` Science to me is statistics , numbers , texts – something you can see , you can touch , you can hear . Religion is more of something you can not see , you can not touch , you can not hear . I feel like they are different faculties . ''
The United States was the largest contributor to the WHO in the 2018 - 2019 biennium , giving just over $ 893 million , or about 20 % of its approved budget that cycle . The second largest donor was the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation , which contributed roughly 12 % . Other top donors include Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance ; the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( UNOCHA ) ; Rotary International ; the World Bank ; the European Commission ; and other WHO member states including the UK , Germany and Japan .
Overall , 35 % of U.S. adults say medical doctors have very high ethical standards , up from 23 % in a 2019 Center survey . While `` very high '' ratings are up significantly among both parties since 2019 , Democrats ( 39 % ) are more likely than Republicans ( 31 % ) to rate doctors ' ethical standards as very high .
As has been the case for the last several years , Americans view Congress negatively : Just 22 % now express a favorable opinion of the institution while 71 % say their opinion is unfavorable . The current ratings rival the lowest on record ( in July 2013 , 21 % had a favorable opinion , 70 % an unfavorable one ) ; and are down six points since July of this year , though they are on-par with ratings in February . Though negative ratings of Congress cross party lines , Democratic impressions have become more negative over the last several months ; today 21 % of Democrats view Congress favorably , down from 30 % in July . And as Republicans are poised to take control of both houses of Congress in January , their views of the institution are little changed over the past few years ; currently 27 % say they have a favorable view .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) say that people who go to public places in their communities where they may be near others should wear masks most of the time or always . An additional 17 % say that masks should be worn `` some of the time '' in these situations and 12 % say they should rarely or never be worn . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are about twice as likely as Republicans and Republican leaners to say that masks should be worn always ( 63 % vs. 29 % ) . Republicans are much more likely than Democrats to say that masks should rarely or never be worn ( 23 % vs. 4 % ) .
During the period from 2010 to 2011 , birth rates among teens ages 15 - 19 dropped 8 % , and among women ages 20 - 24 declined 5 % —in both cases reaching historic lows in 2011 . At the other end of the age spectrum , the birth rate for women ages 40 - 44 rose 1 % , to 10.3 births per 1,000 women in that age group . The last time the rate came that close was in 1967 , when it was 10.6 . Birth rates among women in their late 20s declined 1 % , to the lowest point in 2011 since the 1976 bicentennial . Among women in their early 30s , birth rates held stable , while rates for women in their late 30s rose for the first time since the onset of the recession .
The mismatch group is also significantly more likely to have changed residences in the past few years , making it more challenging for voter databases to maintain up-to-date records of their voting history . For example , those who have lived at least five years at their current residence are significantly more likely to have their self-reported vote match the voter record than those who have a shorter residential tenure ( 12 % vs. 26 % ) . Renters ( 27 % ) are twice as likely as homeowners ( 13 % ) to say they voted but to not have a record of voting .
From ride-hailing apps to shopping services , the sharing and on-demand economy has grown in the U.S. , yet a relatively small minority of the public is incorporating shared and on-demand services deeply into their day-to-day lives . Still , some Americans are `` super users '' : 7 % have used six or more services ( out of a total of 11 ) , according to a Pew Research Center study .
About one-in-six adults ( 16 % ) who have been employed in the past two years say there was a time during this period when they needed or wanted to take time off from work following the birth or adoption of their child , to care for a family member with a serious health condition or to deal with their own serious health condition , but were unable to do so . This figure rises to 30 % among those with household incomes under $ 30,000 .
As with partisan affiliation , there are substantial differences in the ideological leanings of generations . Based on data from the Pew Research Center 's 2014 Political Polarization survey , Millennials are currently the least conservative generation . Across a set of 10 political values questions on issues such as the role of government , the environment and business , just 15 % of Millennials express either consistently or mostly conservative views compared with 44 % who have a mix of liberal and conservative views and fully 41 % who express consistently or mostly liberal views . By comparison , more Gen Xers ( 25 % ) , Baby Boomers ( 33 % ) and Silents ( 39 % ) express consistently or mostly conservative views across this set of 10 questions .
While the bridge collapse dominated public interest last week , attentiveness to the situation in Iraq remained at about the same level as it has during the summer , with 29 % following war news very closely . About one-in-five ( 21 % ) paid very close attention to the Iraq policy debate while a similar number ( 19 % ) followed the 2008 presidential campaign very closely .
The survey finds only modest partisan differences in views of the threat from the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians . But the gap in Mideast sympathies – for either Israel or the Palestinians – now stands at its widest point in surveys dating to 1978 . Nearly three-quarters of Republicans ( 74 % ) say they sympathize more with Israel than the Palestinians ; just 11 % sympathize more with the Palestinians , while 15 % say they sympathize with neither side , both sides or do not offer a view .
Voters who back Clinton were divided on other aspects of the nation , however . While 37 % thought security from terrorism in the U.S. has gotten better since 2008 , about as many ( 41 % ) said it has stayed about the same , and 22 % thought it has gotten worse .
Over the 14 election cycles between 1992 and 2018 , an average of 41.2 House members each cycle chose not to run for reelection . During those cycles , the numbers ranged from a low of 30 ( in both 2000 and 2006 ) to a high of 65 in 1992 . The 1992 election cycle holds the record for voluntary House departures going back to 1930 , based on our analysis and a tally compiled by Vital Statistics on Congress . According to our analysis , the 2018 election cycle saw the second-highest number of voluntary departures from the House ( that is , members retiring , resigning or pursuing some other office ) since the early 1990s , with 58 representatives ( 39 Republicans and 19 Democrats ) not running for reelection . Of those 58 , 31 retired outright , 21 left to run for some other office , and six resigned without being replaced in a special election . ( This time around , four other House seats besides Hunter 's are currently vacant due to resignation or death , but they are scheduled to be filled by special elections . Since the winners of those four special elections presumably will seek full terms this November as incumbents , we did n't include them in our count . )
Political parties ' ideological stances are in the eye of the beholder : Republicans and Democrats see the opposite party as more ideologically extreme than their own , which they tend to consider more moderate . In a recent Pew Research Center study of political animosity , respondents were asked to rate themselves and both political parties on an 11-point ideological scale , ranging from very liberal to very conservative . Members of both parties most commonly place the other party on the extreme end of the scale . Among Democrats , 34 % placed the GOP at the most conservative point . Even more Republicans – 45 % – put the Democratic Party at the liberal extreme .
A new Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults finds that these users are turning to YouTube for much more than entertainment . Roughly half of YouTube users say the platform is very important for helping them figure out how to do things they 've never done before . That works out to 35 % of all U.S. adults , once both users and non-users of the site are accounted for . And around one-in-five YouTube users ( representing 13 % of the total adult population ) say it is very important for helping them understand events that are happening in the world .
At the same time , there has been a major shift in attitudes on whether or not the use of marijuana should be legal . As recently as four years ago , about half ( 52 % ) said they thought the use of marijuana should not be legal ; 41 % said marijuana use should be legal . Today those numbers are roughly reversed – 54 % favor marijuana legalization while 42 % are opposed . ( These findings , based on a separate survey conducted Feb. 12 - 26 , were included in the `` Millennials in Adulthood '' report released March 7 . )
The view from abroad is mostly one of disapproval . In most countries we surveyed in 2014 , majorities opposed U.S. government monitoring of emails and phone calls of foreign leaders or their citizens . And a median of 62 % in 43 countries also oppose U.S. monitoring of American citizens . In contrast , Americans tilt toward the view that eavesdropping on foreign leaders is an acceptable practice , though they are divided over using this technique on average people in other countries . But six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) also oppose the government monitoring communications of U.S. citizens .
Few older adults are smartphone owners : More than half of all Americans now have a smartphone , but among older adults , adoption levels sit at just 18 % . Additionally , smartphone ownership among older adults has risen only modestly in recent years , from 11 % in April 2011 . A significant majority of older adults ( 77 % ) do have a cell phone of some kind , but by and large these tend to be more basic devices . Among older adults , tablets and e-book readers are as popular as smartphones : Among the general public , smartphones are much more common than either tablet computers or e-book readers , such as Kindles or Nooks . But tablets , e-book readers , and smartphones are each owned by an identical 18 % of older adults . In fact , the proportion of older adults who own either a tablet or an e-book reader is actually larger than the proportion owning a smartphone . Some 27 % of seniors own a tablet , an e-book reader , or both , while 18 % own a smartphone .
Family members accounted for about a third ( 35 % ) of all border apprehensions in 2018 – the highest share within the past seven years . The months leading up to the shutdown drove this increase : Family member apprehensions in December made up more than half ( 54 % ) of total southwest border apprehensions that month , the fourth consecutive high since September ( 40 % ) . Border agents also apprehended nearly 54,000 unaccompanied children in 2018 – or 12 % of the total – though this share was lower than in 2014 through 2016 ( each 14 % ) . ( Unaccompanied child apprehensions do not include children who were apprehended as a family unit and later became unaccompanied as a result of prosecution initiatives . ) Besides unaccompanied children and family members , single adults continue to account for the largest share of border apprehensions : In 2018 there were nearly 250,000 single adult apprehensions , or 54 % of the total . Still , the recent surge in family unit apprehensions is particularly notable because December 2018 marks the third time family member apprehensions exceeded single adult apprehensions , according to the Department of Homeland Security . The other two times were in October and November .
People in the region are split on how relations will change between the U.S. and their country . Many countries around the world do not expect relations between their country and the U.S. to change over the next few years with Trump as president . Globally , a median of 41 % expect relations to stay about the same and 32 % expect relations to get worse . Within the Asia-Pacific region , countries are split . About as many in South Korea say relations will stay about the same ( 45 % ) as say they expect relations to sour ( 43 % ) . Around a third ( 34 % ) in Japan say relations will stay about the same , compared with four-in-ten ( 41 % ) who expect relations will get worse and 17 % who say relations with the U.S. will get better . In the Philippines and Vietnam , people are more likely to say relations with the U.S. will stay the same or improve now that Trump is president .
In this analysis , newsroom employees include reporters , editors , photographers and videographers ages 18 and older working full time in the newspaper , broadcasting and internet publishing industries . For a full definition of `` newsroom employees , '' see the methodology .
The dramatic plunge in positive assessments of the national economy as a result of the coronavirus outbreak is steeper than declines in economic ratings seen during the last two recessions . Before they took a sudden negative turn , economic attitudes were historically positive . Just three months ago , the public 's views of the national economy were more positive than they had been at any point over the past 20 years . After the dot-com bubble burst in the early 2000s , views of the economy slipped precipitously , but far less rapidly than they have during the coronavirus outbreak . While public views of the economy prior to the economic trouble of the early 2000s were even brighter than they were prior to the COVID-19 outbreak , it took considerably longer for perceptions to fall as far as they already have in the first three months of 2020 .
Those who say global warming is happening as a result of human activity increasingly believe that it is a very serious problem : Today , fully three-quarters ( 75 % ) say this , up 17 points from 2013 . And although just 33 % of those who attribute warming to natural patterns in the earth 's environment say it is a very serious problem , that reflects a 10-point increase since 2013 . Among those who say there is no solid evidence of global warming , just 8 % say global warming is a very serious problem , unchanged since 2013 .
These country-level differences in regular Twitter activity are also clearly visible in the median number of tweets produced across the six months of the study . By this measure , U.S. and UK lawmakers are more active tweeters compared with their peers , posting a median of 79 and 70 monthly tweets per legislator , respectively . Those in New Zealand tweet the least , with just 15 monthly tweets per legislator at the median .
Americans also are using less water in their homes , which indirectly addresses climate change . ( As the EPA notes , `` It takes lots of energy to pump , treat , and heat water , so saving water reduces greenhouse gas emissions . '' ) According to our analysis of data from the U.S. Geological Survey , average residential water use was 87.5 gallons per person per day in 2010 ( the latest year for which data are available ) . That 's nearly 21 % below the average use figure for 1980 , the peak year .
That reflects the wider trend in U.S. society . According to Census figures , veterans currently make up about 7 % of the overall population , down from 13.7 % in 1970 — when the Vietnam War was raging and the draft was still in place . As a 2011 Pew Research Center report noted , the post-9/11 wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have been fought by a historically small U.S. military ; this has contributed to a distance between the military and civilian society . While Americans overwhelmingly say they feel proud of those who 've served and appreciate their sacrifices , 71 % say most Americans know little or nothing about the problems faced by military personnel ; about as many ( 74 % ) oppose reinstating a draft .
By comparison , Americans express the greatest sense of security using landline phones when sharing private information with another trusted entity . However , their level of confidence is still quite low ; just 16 % of adults say they feel `` very secure '' sharing private information via the landline phone , while 51 % say they feel `` somewhat secure . ''
There are familiar partisan and demographic differences in assessments of Trump 's overall job performance . Men , whites , older adults and those with lower levels of education continue to have more positive assessments of the president 's job performance than women , black and Hispanic adults , younger adults and those with higher levels of education . About nine-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 92 % ) disapprove of the way the president is handling his job , including 79 % who say they disapprove very strongly . By contrast , 80 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say they approve of Trump 's job performance ( 64 % approve very strongly ) .
Large majorities say Beijing poses serious challenges for India . Seven-in-ten of those surveyed believe that China 's economic impact on India is a serious problem , including 45 % who voice the view that it is very serious . Nearly half ( 48 % ) of Indians think China 's relationship with Pakistan poses a very serious problem for India . Another 21 % see this as a somewhat serious challenge . Fully 69 % hold the view that China 's growing military power is a problem for India , including 46 % who say this is a very serious issue . And the same proportion ( 69 % ) expresses the opinion that China 's territorial disputes with India are very or somewhat serious . Notably , with regard to problems posed by China , BJP adherents are more intensely worried than Congress backers .
Suspected bots also accounted for 66 % of tweeted links to sites focused on news and current events . That 's a lower share than for sites focused on adult content ( 90 % ) , sports ( 76 % ) and commercial products ( 73 % ) , but higher than for sites focused on celebrities ( 62 % ) , those focused on organizations or groups ( 53 % ) or internal links to Twitter.com ( 50 % ) . News and current events websites include sites that produce original reporting on events in public life , those that mostly aggregate news from other sites , and those that focus primarily on commentary or discussion .
This year , the gap between the share of Americans who say crime is up nationally and the share who say it is up locally ( 78 % vs. 38 % ) is the widest Gallup has ever recorded .
Public interest in economic news remained high last week as 40 % of Americans followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely . Nearly one-in-four Americans ( 23 % ) listed the economy as the single news story they were following more closely than any other , placing it second only to the presidential campaign . Interest in economic news last week was nearly on par with interest in the presidential campaign — 37 % of the public say they followed campaign news very closely last week , and 32 % listed this as their most closely followed story . However , there was far more news coverage devoted to the presidential campaign than to the economy . Last week the media devoted 7 % of its overall coverage to economic news , while 51 % of the coverage was devoted to the campaign . This was the highest level of campaign coverage recorded so far this year , according to the Project for Excellence in Journalism . Campaign coverage was particularly dominant on cable news networks ; fully 76 % of the cable newshole was devoted to the campaign .
Amid widespread economic hardship caused by COVID-19 , around four-in-ten U.S. adults said in August that they or someone in their household had been laid off , lost their job or taken a pay cut . The economic shocks of the pandemic affected a broad range of American workers and their families . In the August survey , a quarter of U.S. adults said they or someone in their household had been laid off or lost their job , while around a third ( 32 % ) said they or someone in their household had taken a pay cut . All told , 42 % of adults reported at least one of these things happening to them or someone in their household . Job losses and pay cuts were especially common among younger adults , Hispanics and those in lower-income families .
Public interest in the Iraq war remained consistent last week . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed news from Iraq very closely , while 13 % say it was their top news story of the week . Those numbers are largely unchanged from the previous week . Pope Benedict XVI 's visit to the U.S. was the media 's second biggest story of the week , but generated only modest public interest . Overall , 13 % followed news about the pope 's visit very closely and 6 % called it their top story .
Lack of confidence in the central government is pronounced . Not including Crimea , fewer than half of Ukrainians ( 41 % ) say the current government in Kyiv is having a good influence on the way things are going in the country . Similar to views on official state languages , sharp regional divides are evident : six-in-ten in the country 's west rate Kyiv 's influence favorably , compared with only about a quarter in eastern Ukraine ( 24 % ) who share this assessment .
There has long been a sizable gender gap in leaned party identification . Men are divided ( 44 % Democratic , 43 % Republican ) . In 2008 , however , Democrats held a nine-point lead in leaned party identification among men ( 47 % to 38 % ) . Since 1990 , women have been consistently more likely than men to identify as Democrats or lean Democratic ( 52 % to 36 % in 2014 ) . Back to top
A Pew Research Center survey , conducted Sept. 1 - 4 , 2016 , among 1,004 adults ( including 815 registered voters ) , asked voters which of five key issues would be most important in their vote for president . The economy tops the list , with 37 % of registered voters saying this will be the most important issue for them . An additional 18 % choose health care and 14 % say terrorism . Immigration and gun policy are each named by 13 % of voters . When asked specifically about national economic issues , the job situation shares top billing with the budget deficit in terms of issues that voters say are important to their choice for president . Among the six economic issues tested , 43 % of voters say that jobs will be either the most important or the second most important issue to their vote for president ; 43 % give the same weight to the federal budget deficit . By comparison , other economic issues – tax reform , income inequality , rising prices and global trade – are viewed as less important to voters .
Younger Americans are better than their elders at separating factual from opinion statements in the news . About a third ( 32 % ) of Americans ages 18 to 49 correctly identified all five factual statements they were asked to categorize in a Pew Research Center survey , compared with 20 % of those 50 and older . Younger adults ( 44 % ) were also more likely than older Americans ( 26 % ) to accurately classify all five opinion statements . These patterns persisted regardless of the ideological appeal of the statements .
The survey also gauged the intensity of concern or enthusiasm for gene editing , finding that two-thirds of all adults ( 68 % ) say this new development makes them `` very '' or `` somewhat '' worried . By contrast , only half ( 49 % ) say they are `` very '' or `` somewhat '' enthusiastic about gene editing . Three-in-ten say they are both worried and enthusiastic about the technology .
The U.S. electorate reached several milestones last year . According to the Census Bureau , 2012 was the first time that the black voter turnout rate1 , exceeded that of whites ( File , 2013 ) , though there is some skepticism about when or if the black voter turnout rate surpassed the white voter turnout rate ( Taylor and Lopez , 2013 ) . In addition , the number of white voters declined for the second presidential election in a row , leading to a decline in the white voter turnout rate . One other finding from 2012 is the decline in the youth voter turnout rate . According to an analysis by the Center for Information & Research on Civic Learning & Engagement , the voter turnout rate among those ages 18 to 29 declined from 51 % in 2008 to 45 % in 2012 ( CIRCLE , 2013 ) .
Trump begins his third year with a 37 % job approval rating ; 59 % disapprove of his job performance . Of five previous presidents , only Ronald Reagan had as low a job approval mark at this point in his presidency . ( Reagan 's disapproval – 54 % – was lower than Trump 's . )
Around two-thirds of police officers ( 68 % ) said in 2016 that the demonstrations over the deaths of black people during encounters with law enforcement were motivated to a great extent by anti-police bias ; only 10 % said ( in a separate question ) that protesters were primarily motivated by a genuine desire to hold police accountable for their actions . Here as elsewhere , police officers ' views differed by race : Only about a quarter of white officers ( 27 % ) but around six-in-ten of their black colleagues ( 57 % ) said such protests were motivated at least to some extent by a genuine desire to hold police accountable .
The age differences in positive support for Biden are particularly stark among Black voters who support him . Among Black voters ages 50 and older , 68 % say their vote is more for Biden ; among those younger than 50 , just 39 % say the same .
The European debt crisis attracted little attention or coverage last week ; 3 % say this was their top story , while 12 % say they followed this news very closely . The ongoing crisis accounted for 2 % of coverage .
Seattle , San Francisco and Boston are notable not only because they have relatively few Christians , but also for their considerable populations of religious `` nones '' ( atheists , agnostics and those who say their religion is `` nothing in particular '' ) . A third or more of people in each of those metropolitan areas ( 37 % in Seattle , 35 % in San Francisco and 33 % in Boston ) are religious `` nones . ''
The power of partisanship is reflected in attitudes about Donald Trump . In the survey , conducted in June , Trump 's job ratings are more deeply polarized along partisan lines than those of any president in more than 60 years . Overall , Trump gets his most positive ratings among the two most solidly Republican groups , Core Conservatives and Country First Conservatives . Large majorities in each group strongly approve of Trump 's job performance ( 80 % of Core Conservatives , 71 % of Country First Conservatives ) .
A new Pew Research Center analysis based on European data sources estimates that at least 3.9 million unauthorized immigrants – and possibly as many as 4.8 million – lived in Europe in 2017 . The total is up from 2014 , when 3.0 million to 3.7 million unauthorized migrants lived in Europe , but is little changed from a recent peak of 4.1 million to 5.3 million in 2016 .
In more than 13,000 interviews conducted so far in 2012 , 35 % of registered voters identify with the Democratic Party , 28 % with the Republican Party and 33 % as independents . The share of Democrats has fallen three points since 2008 , while the proportion of Republicans has remained steady . Overall , the Democrats now have a five-point lead in party affiliation among registered voters when independents who lean to either party are included ( 48 % to 43 % ) . That is down from a 12-point advantage in 2008 ( 51 % to 39 % ) . The current Democratic edge in leaned party identification is comparable to the slim leads they held in 2004 ( three points ) and 2000 ( four points ) .
Discontentment among Argentines extends across a wide range of conditions in the country . Overall , 72 % of Argentines say they are pessimistic with how the political system works when thinking about the future . Those with a favorable view of the ruling party are less likely to feel pessimistic about the way their political system works than those with an unfavorable view ( 58 % vs. 78 % ) , though majorities of both are still pessimistic . Roughly half of the Argentine public reports feeling pessimistic about the possibility of reducing the gap between the rich and poor ( 52 % ) , the nation 's education system ( 52 % ) and the availability of well-paying jobs ( 51 % ) . On a positive note , a majority of Argentines express optimism about their country 's culture when looking ahead ( 61 % ) .
There were more 27-year-olds in the United States than people of any other age in 2018 . But for white Americans , the most common age was 58 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . The most common age was 11 for Hispanics , 27 for blacks and 29 for Asians as of last July , the latest estimates available . Americans of two or more races were by far the youngest racial or ethnic group in the Census Bureau data , with a most common age of just 3 years old . Among all racial and ethnic minorities , the most common age was 27 .
The most heavily covered news story of the week was the debate in Washington over a new immigration policy . Fully 10 % of the newshole was devoted to this story as George Bush and congressional leaders attempted to keep the controversial reform legislation alive . The public paid fairly close attention to the immigration debate : 22 % followed the story very closely and 17 % said this was the story they followed more closely than any other . Public interest in the 2008 presidential campaign remained steady last week . Despite the absence of major campaign events or debates , 17 % of the public followed campaign news very closely and 10 % listed this as their top story . The media devoted 7 % of its overall coverage to the campaign . The violent conflict between rival Palestinian groups was the second most heavily covered news story of the week ( 9 % of the newshole ) . One-in-five Americans followed this story very closely , and 7 % said it was their most closely followed story . Only a small segment of the public paid close attention to the recent problems aboard the international space station — 7 % followed this story very closely and 4 % listed it as their top story of the week . Ten years ago when the Russian space station Mir experienced problems , the American public was somewhat more interested .
Caregivers are highly engaged in the pursuit of health information , support , care , and advice , both online and offline , and do many health-related activities at higher levels than non-caregivers . Indeed , being a caregiver is independently associated with key health-related activities . When controlling for age , income , education , ethnicity , and good overall health , caregivers are more likely than other adults to :
Nearly all international migrants who were born in Mexico live in the U.S. ( 97 % ) , the highest share among the six countries , followed by El Salvador ( 89 % ) and Guatemala ( 88 % ) . By comparison , only around a quarter ( 28 % ) of international migrants born in Colombia live in the U.S. ; a plurality ( 49 % ) live elsewhere in the Latin America and Caribbean region .
As President Obama prepares to speak to the nation Thursday night about steps to boost job creation , six-in-ten ( 61 % ) say they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy . That 's down from 67 % at the start of August , but still near the high levels recorded in early 2009 near the height of the economic crisis . Perceptions of the tone of economic news worsened dramatically through much of 2011 as evidence mounted that the recovery had stalled . In May , about a third ( 35 % ) said they were hearing mostly bad news about the economy . That grew to 49 % in July and then hit a high for the year so far in August . The numbers moved little between August and September , though in a slightly more positive direction . The number hearing a mix of good and bad news rose from 30 % in August to 35 % . Still , that is about half the percentage that said this in January ( 68 % ) . Just 2 % say they are hearing mostly good news about the economy .
More generally , strong majorities of all age groups agree that `` Americans should n't have to give up privacy and freedom in order to be safe from terrorism . '' But people younger than 50 were significantly more supportive of that position than 50-and-overs were .
Across 10 European nations recently surveyed by Pew Research Center , a median of 74 % say the EU promotes peace , and most also think it promotes democratic values and prosperity . However , Europeans also tend to describe Brussels as inefficient and intrusive , and in particular they believe the EU is out of touch – a median of 62 % say it does not understand the needs of its citizens .
The Democratic Party continues to receive slightly higher favorability ratings than the Republican Party – though neither party is rated favorably by more than half of the public . Overall , 49 % have a favorable view of the Democratic Party , compared with about as many ( 47 % ) who hold an unfavorable view . Ratings of the Democratic Party have ticked down from September of last year ( 53 % ) but are comparable to where they have been at other points in the recent past . Views of the Republican Party tilt negative , on balance : 54 % hold an unfavorable view of the GOP , while 42 % view the party favorably . Ratings of the Republican Party have changed little in recent years .
The population of Puerto Rico stood at 3.2 million in 2018 , its lowest point since 1979 and down sharply from 2017 , when hurricanes Maria and Irma hit the island , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . The 3.9 % decline in 2018 represents the largest year-to-year drop since 1950 , the first year for which annual data is available .
Among the things teens choose to share on social media , their real name and photos of themselves rank the highest . What else do they share ?
Skepticism is especially pervasive in the Palestinian territories . In a recent Pew Research Center poll , 61 % of Palestinians said they did not believe a way can be found for Israel and an independent Palestinian state to coexist peacefully . In fact , a 45 % -plurality said the best way to achieve statehood is through armed struggle . Just 15 % think non-violent resistance is the best strategy . And there is little faith in negotiations – only 15 % believe negotiations are the best path to statehood .
Americans and Germans express very different opinions about the state of relations between their two countries . While roughly two-in-three Americans characterize relations as good , a 56 % majority of Germans take the opposite view .
Despite clear support for an end to the U.S. embargo and re-establishment of diplomatic relations , Latin Americans are divided on their overall opinion of Cuba . Across the six countries surveyed , a median of 40 % have a favorable view of the Caribbean nation , but 44 % hold an unfavorable view . Overall support for Cuba is strongest in Chile , the only country where a plurality has a positive view . In Venezuela , 42 % have a favorable opinion of Cuba , similar to the 37 % who held this view in 2014 .
These are among the major findings from the latest survey in Tunisia by the Pew Research Center , based on face-to-face interviews conducted with 1,000 respondents from April 19 to May 9 , 2014 . The poll also finds declining popularity for Ennahda , the moderate Islamist party that led a coalition government after the fall of Ben Ali . Though the former ruling party is expected to do well in the October parliamentary elections , just 31 % express a favorable view of the organization , down from 65 % in 2012 .
But despite these reservations , those who have personally used online dating themselves – or know someone who does – tend to have much more positive attitudes compared to those with little direct exposure to online dating or online daters . For instance , just 55 % of non-users agree that online dating is a good way to meet people , while six-in-ten agree that online dating is more dangerous than other ways of meeting people .
Are you planning to wish your mom a Happy Mother 's Day on Facebook ? If so , you 're not alone . `` Moms '' ( defined as women with a child or children under the age of 18 living at home ) are especially likely to be Facebook users , even compared with dads , or with other women , according to Pew Research Center 's 2012 data on social networking . Some 79 % of moms use Facebook , compared with 61 % of all women and 57 % of men with a minor child living at home . ( As of December 2012 , 54 % of all American adults and 67 % of internet users use social networking sites . ) Perhaps it 's not surprising so many moms are on Facebook . Women surpassed men in their social networking site usage several years ago and since then they have been consistently more likely than men to use online social networks .
In addition to Egypt , political participation is also relatively high in several of the other Middle Eastern nations surveyed , including Jordan , Lebanon and the Palestinian territories . Tunisia has the lowest levels in the region , with just 17 % reporting high political engagement , despite the fact that its 2011 Jasmine Revolution was the first of the Arab Spring anti-government protests . Along with Middle Easterners , Africans also report high levels of political engagement . Six-in-ten Kenyans are in the high participation category , as are 52 % of Senegalese . Ghanaians report the lowest participation in the region , with just 24 % among the highly-engaged political participants .
In addition , black Muslims are much more likely than nonblack Muslims to have been born in the United States ( 69 % vs. 36 % ) , though less likely than black Christians ( 90 % ) . Aside from those born in the U.S. , many black Muslims come from sub-Saharan Africa , including countries such as Somalia and Ethiopia . By contrast , the most common places of origin for nonblack Muslims are south Asian countries , such as Pakistan .
Americans tend to view the impact of the internet and other digital technologies on their own lives in largely positive ways , Pew Research Center surveys have shown over the years . A survey of U.S. adults conducted in January 2018 finds continuing evidence of this trend , with the vast majority of internet users ( 88 % ) saying the internet has , on balance , been a mostly good thing for them personally .
All other political organizations garner less than a third of favorable responses . Ennahda , the moderate Islamist party that took heat for being unwilling to share power after winning Tunisia 's first free election , receives slightly more support than others , with positive ratings from 31 % of Tunisians . While Ennahda accrues the greatest amount of negativity ( 64 % ) , it also has the greatest recognition of all the political parties tested . The organization 's favorability has declined precipitously over the last two years , falling 34 percentage points since 2012 when 65 % of Tunisians held a favorable opinion of the group . Ettakatol , also called the Democratic Forum for Labor and Liberties , and the Congress Party for the Republic garner similar scores . Only about a quarter of Tunisians ( 26 % ) rate these groups favorably , while a majority express unfavorable opinions of them . Both secular , center-left parties have seen similar declines in their favorability of roughly 20 percentage points since 2012 ( 22 points for the Congress Party and 18 points for Ettakatol ) .
While a 55 % majority of Trump supporters say the party would unite behind him , they are somewhat more skeptical about this than McCain and Romney supporters were during the 2008 and 2012 primaries , respectively . In 2008 , 64 % of McCain supporters said the party would unite behind him , while 75 % of Romney supporters said this in 2012 . Cruz and Kasich supporters are more skeptical of Trump 's ability to unite the party than were supporters of prior candidates who did not become the GOP 's eventual nominee in past elections . A slim majority of Republican voters who supported candidates Mike Huckabee and Ron Paul in February 2008 said they believed the party would solidly unite behind John McCain if he were to become the nominee ( as he later did ) . And an even wider majority ( 62 % ) of supporters of Newt Gingrich , Ron Paul and Rick Santorum said they believed the party would solidly unite behind Mitt Romney , the eventual GOP nominee , in April 2012 .
About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) expect that the Republicans in Congress will be fair and reasonable in handling the inquiry ; 57 % say they are not too confident or not at all confident . Nearly half ( 47 % ) are at least somewhat confident that congressional Democrats will be fair , while 52 % have little or no confidence in the Democrats . These views are deeply divided by party . About seven-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners ( 71 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident in congressional Republicans to be fair , but only 22 % say they are very confident . By contrast , 90 % of Republicans express little or no confidence in Democrats in Congress – with 67 % saying they are not at all confident .
The Latino voter turnout rate held steady at 47.6 % in 2016 , compared with 48.0 % in 2012 . Overall turnout remained flat despite expectations heading into Election Day of a long-awaited , historic surge in Latino voters . Due largely to demographic growth , the number of Latino voters grew to a record 12.7 million in 2016 , up from 11.2 million in 2012 . Even so , the number of Latino nonvoters – those eligible to vote who do not cast a ballot , or 14 million in 2016 – was larger than the number of Latino voters , a trend that extends back to each presidential election since 1996 . Meanwhile , the Asian voter turnout rate increased to 49.3 % in 2016 , up from 46.9 % in 2012 and surpassing Hispanics for the first time since 1996 . Asians continue to represent a smaller share of voters than Hispanics : Overall , about 5 million Asians voted in 2016 , up from 3.8 million in 2012 . Blacks , Hispanics , Asians and other racial or ethnic minorities accounted for 26.7 % of voters in 2016 , a share unchanged from 2012 . Leading up to the election , the overall eligible voting population was the most racially and ethnically diverse ever . However , whites made up 73.3 % of voters in 2016 , a share unchanged from 2012 , when they accounted for 73.7 % . Meanwhile , blacks made up 11.9 % of voters in 2016 , down from 12.9 % in 2012 – the first time since 2004 that blacks have declined as a share of voters . Hispanics have accounted for a growing share of the electorate for decades , and this trend continued in 2016 , when they made up 9.2 % of voters , up from 8.4 % in 2012 . Asians made up 3.6 % of all voters in 2016 , up from 2.8 % in 2012
Democrats and Republicans in counties that have been hit hard by the coronavirus outbreak in recent weeks are more likely than their counterparts in places that were hit hard earlier in the pandemic or that have not been as hard hit to say K-12 schools in their area should provide online instruction five days a week in the fall . Still , there are large partisan differences in counties that have been hard hit and in those that have n't .
A recent paper by two Columbia University researchers that combined multiple survey data sources finds evidence of this sort of generational imprinting . Their study identified five main generations of presidential voters , each shaped by political events during their formative years : New Deal Democrats , Eisenhower Republicans , Baby Boomers , Reagan Conservatives and Millennials . ( The researchers note , however , that their model works best among non-Hispanic whites . ) Amanda Cox of The Upshot ( The New York Times ' data blog ) has created a fascinating interactive visualization of the researchers ' model . As Fact Tank noted last year , Americans who came of age during the Truman and Eisenhower administrations , and are now in their 70s and 80s , have fairly consistently favored Republican candidates , while those who turned 18 under Bill Clinton and his two successors have almost always voted more Democratic than the nation as a whole .
At a time when China 's economic presence is growing in Europe , roughly half of young Europeans ( a median of 52 % ) ages 18 to 33 have a positive view of the People 's Republic . But that view is tempered by their opinions about China when it comes to human rights . Roughly six-in-ten French ( 61 % ) and British ( 59 % ) Millennials have favorable views of China , but that outlook is not shared by young Italians ( 28 % ) or Germans ( 30 % ) . ( In contrast , 44 % of Americans ages 18 to 33 give China a thumbs-up . ) However , young Europeans are quite critical of Beijing 's human rights record . A median of just 17 % across the seven countries surveyed believe that China respects the personal freedoms of its people . This includes just 6 % of German and 7 % of Italian Millennials . Notably , however , 25 % of the British ages 18 to 33 say China respects civil liberties , in contrast with just 11 % of British ages 50 and older who agree .
Support of President Obama and his signature legislation , the Affordable Care Act , has declined among Hispanics over the past six months , even though the popularity of both is nearly unchanged among the public overall , according to a new analysis of Pew Research Center survey data . During the same time period , Obama 's job approval rating has slipped 15 points among Hispanics . About half of Hispanics ( 48 % ) approve of Obama 's job performance today , down from 63 % in September 2013 . ( Among the general public today , 44 % approve of Obama and 41 % approve of the new law , neither significantly changed from September . )
Similarly , while 62 % describe the country 's economy as bad , this is a slight improvement from last year 's 68 % , and is significantly lower than the 75 % registered in 2010 .
The percentage of all American adults who use Wikipedia to look for information has increased from 25 % in February 2007 to 42 % in May 2010 , a 17 percentage point increase . The proportion of adults who use the internet over that same time period grew at a more modest rate , from 71 % to 79 % of all adults .
Nearly half of Americans ( 48 % ) say news organizations are giving the right amount of coverage to the investigation into the missing jetliner ; another 12 % say there has been too little coverage of this story . A third ( 33 % ) think the investigation into plane 's fate has received too much coverage .
Approval ratings for both Republican and Democratic congressional leaders remain negative on balance and are lower than they were in February . Today , 29 % say they approve of the job Democratic leaders in Congress are doing , down from 37 % in February . Ratings for Republican leaders in Congress are even worse : just 22 % say they approve of the job they are doing . Ratings for Republican leaders in Congress are down from a recent high point of 34 % , reached in February at the start of the 115th Congress . The recent drop in ratings for both Republican and Democratic congressional leaders is largely attributable to partisans ' increasingly negative assessments of their own party 's leaders .
Around four-in-ten ( 43 % ) of those Americans who think the news media are covering the outbreak very well say they are very confident in their own ability to check the accuracy of COVID-19 information . That compares with around a quarter of those who think the media are doing somewhat well ( 23 % ) or not too or not at all well ( 24 % ) at covering the outbreak . Views of the news media 's coverage of the outbreak align closely with people 's confidence in their own fact-checking abilities even after accounting for how closely Americans are paying attention to COVID-19 news .
In Western Europe , slim majorities in Germany ( 54 % ) , Britain ( 53 % ) and France ( 51 % ) support raising prices to address climate change . Opinions are almost equally split among the Spanish ( 49 % agree vs. 48 % disagree ) .
Amid increased concern about global climate change , most U.S. adults prioritize developing alternative energy sources for the country such as solar or wind power rather than increasing U.S. exploration and production of fossil fuels ( 77 % vs. 22 % ) . The same Pew Research Center survey finds a growing share of homeowners are considering solar panels for home use . Just 6 % of U.S. homeowners say they have already installed solar panels at home . Another 46 % say they have given serious thought to adding solar panels at their home in the past year . The share of homeowners considering getting solar panels is up from 40 % in 2016 and has especially increased among those living in the South Atlantic states ranging from Delaware to Florida . About half of homeowners in the South Atlantic states ( 51 % ) say they are considering installing solar panels , up 20 percentage points from 2016 . Homeowners in other Southern states ( the East and West South Central region ) tend to express more interest in installing solar panels ( 45 % in 2019 compared with 34 % in 2016 ) , though this 11 percentage point difference is not statistically significant . Just 3 % of Southern homeowners say they have solar panels at their residence , a similar share as in 2016 .
Younger users are especially active at utilizing these platforms for employment-related purposes , but many older users are taking advantage of social media when looking for work as well . Roughly one-quarter of social media users ages 50 and older have used these platforms to look for work or to let their friends know about job openings , and 11 % of older social media users have applied for a job they first found out about on social media .
From the public 's perspective , some aspects of the presidential campaign have been covered better than others . Americans give the press high marks for coverage of the candidate debates and reporting on which candidate is leading in the latest polls . For both of these facets of the campaign , 62 % say that the press has done an excellent or good job and a third says its performance has been only fair or poor . About half ( 52 % ) say that the press has done only a fair or poor job in covering campaign strategies and the same percentage says this about coverage of the candidates ' positions on issues . Somewhat fewer view coverage of these two aspects of the campaign positively . In both cases , 44 % say that campaign reporting has been excellent or good . The area in which the public sees the greatest weakness in campaign coverage is in news about the candidates ' personal backgrounds and experiences . A majority ( 54 % ) say that the press has done only a fair or poor job , while roughly four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say the coverage has been excellent or good .
Americans are also more upbeat than people in other wealthy nations when asked how their day is going . While we ask this question to help respondents get more comfortable with the interviewer , it provides a glimpse into people 's moods and reveals a slightly negative correlation between those saying the day is a good one and per capita gross domestic product . About four-in-ten Americans ( 41 % ) described their day as a `` particularly good day , '' a much higher share than those in Germany ( 21 % ) , the UK ( 27 % ) and Japan ( 8 % ) .
Overall , 65 % of U.S. adults say that they have personally worn a mask in stores or other businesses all or most of the time in the past month , while 15 % say they did this some of the time . Relatively small shares of adults say they hardly ever ( 9 % ) or never ( 7 % ) wore a mask in the past month , and 4 % say they have not gone to these types of places .
These are among the main findings of a Pew Research Center survey in seven sub-Saharan African nations . The survey was conducted April 11 to June 5 , 2014 , among 7,052 respondents in Ghana , Kenya , Nigeria , Senegal , South Africa , Tanzania and Uganda . All interviews were face-to-face . Comparison figures for the U.S. are from 2014 Pew Research Center surveys . ( For more on technology use in Africa and other emerging and developing nations worldwide , see Internet Seen as Positive Influence on Education but Negative on Morality in Emerging and Developing Nations , released March 19 , 2015 . ) Across the seven countries surveyed , roughly two-thirds or more say they own a cell phone . Ownership is especially high in South Africa and Nigeria , where about nine-in-ten have a cell phone . Roughly a third of South Africans ( 34 % ) and about a quarter of Nigerians ( 27 % ) say that their device is a smartphone , i.e . one that can access the internet and apps , such as an iPhone , Blackberry or Android device . Smartphone ownership is less common in the other nations surveyed , and in Tanzania and Uganda it is still in the single digits . By comparison , 64 % in the United States owned a smartphone as of December 2014 .
In terms of broader priorities for the nation 's energy supply , a majority of Americans ( 58 % ) say it is more important to develop alternative energy sources , such as wind , solar and hydrogen technology , while just 34 % say expanding exploration and production of oil , coal and natural gas is the more important priority . These views are little changed from February , when 54 % said more important to develop alternatives and 34 % said more important to expand production from traditional sources .
Over the past year , support for civil unions has grown significantly among those who oppose same-sex marriage ( 24 % in August 2008 to 30 % in 2009 ) while remaining stable among those who favor same-sex marriage . At the same time , opponents of same-sex marriage continue to outnumber supporters overall . An August 2009 Pew Research Center survey finds that 53 % oppose allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , compared with 39 % who support same-sex marriage , numbers that are virtually unchanged over the past year . Attitudes on same-sex marriage currently stand almost exactly where they did 12 months ago , with just over half of Americans ( 53 % ) opposed and 39 % in favor of allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally . There are stark differences of opinion among the public on this issue , especially among religious and political groups . For example , more than seven-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 72 % ) favor same-sex marriage , while eight-in-ten conservative Republicans ( 81 % ) oppose it .
A 63 % majority of those who identify as Republicans say the U.S. economic system is fair to most Americans ; fewer than half as many ( 29 % ) say the system unfairly favors powerful interests . GOP leaners are divided : 49 % say the system is generally fair , while nearly as many ( 46 % ) say it unfairly favors powerful interests . Large majorities of both Democrats ( 85 % ) and Democratic leaners ( 81 % ) say the U.S. economic system unfairly favors powerful interests . Most independents who do not lean toward a party share this view ( 70 % ) .
On this St. Patrick 's Day , here 's news that might dampen the party : The ranks of Americans who trace their ancestry back to Ireland – long one of the most prominent subgroups in American society – are slowly declining . In 2015 , 32.7 million Americans , or one-in-ten , identified themselves as being of Irish ancestry , making it the second-largest ancestry group in the U.S. after Germans . In addition , nearly 3 million Americans claimed Scotch-Irish ancestry , or just under 1 % of the entire population . ( The Scotch-Irish were mainly Ulster Protestants who migrated to the British colonies in the decades before independence , while Irish Catholics did n't begin arriving in large numbers until the 1840s . ) By comparison , the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland have a combined population of about 6.6 million . The ranks of both Irish and Scotch-Irish Americans have fallen a lot in the past two-and-a-half decades , and the trend does not appear likely to reverse . Two decades ago , in 1990 , 38.7 million Americans ( 15.6 % of the total population ) claimed Irish ancestry , and 5.6 million ( 2.3 % ) identified as Scotch-Irish .
In stark contrast , the poverty line in the U.S. was $ 15.77 per day per capita for a four-person household in 2011 . Moreover , the median daily income of poor Americans was $ 11.45 per capita , greater than the income of more than seven-in-ten people globally . ( All dollar figures are expressed in 2011 prices and purchasing power parities . ) In our report , we divided people who live on $ 10 or less daily into two groups : the global poor , who live on $ 2 or less per day , and the global low-income population that lives on $ 2 to $ 10 per day . By this standard , the majority of the global population ( 3.4 billion , or 56 % ) is low income . A billion more people , 15 % of the global population , are poor .
At the same time , the public 's views varied by the level of importance they placed on the internet during this time . While 44 % of Americans who said the internet has been essential to them personally during this outbreak believed the government has a responsibility during the pandemic to ensure that all Americans have high-speed internet access , these shares were smaller among those who deemed the internet as important but not essential ( 31 % ) and those who described the internet during this time as not too or not at all important ( 25 % ) .
This held true for two Senate races . In Georgia , Democrat Michelle Nunn won 57 % of the Latino vote to Republican David Perdue 's 42 % . But Perdue won the election . In Texas , the Latino vote was split between incumbent Republican John Cornyn ( 48 % ) and Democrat David Alameel ( 47 % ) , as Cornyn won support from nearly half of Latinos . Exit poll data is not available for the Latino vote in Colorado or North Carolina , two key states in this year 's election .
Television was far-and-away the most widely-used source of information about the bombing and its aftermath ; 80 % of Americans followed the story on TV . About half ( 49 % ) say they kept up with news and information online or on a mobile device , and 38 % followed the story on the radio . Only 29 % say they kept up with the story in newspapers , about the same number ( 26 % ) tracked the story on social networking sites like Facebook or Twitter .
In the weeks before Joe Biden 's strong performance in South Carolina and on Super Tuesday , Americans considered him the Democratic presidential candidate with the worst recent news coverage . Around a quarter of U.S. adults ( 27 % ) said Biden had received the worst news coverage in the weeks leading up to the survey . Smaller shares said this about Michael Bloomberg ( 20 % ) , Bernie Sanders ( 13 % ) , Tulsi Gabbard ( 11 % ) and the other candidates . Republicans were slightly more likely than Democrats to say Biden had received the worst news coverage ( 31 % vs. 25 % ) . As for which Democratic candidate had received the best news coverage , the largest share of Americans pointed to Sanders ( 39 % ) . Considerably smaller shares said this about Bloomberg ( 24 % ) , Pete Buttigieg ( 13 % ) , Biden ( 8 % ) and other candidates . On this question , around four-in-ten Democrats as well as Republicans said Sanders had received the best coverage ( 41 % and 37 % , respectively ) .
One aspect of personal risk for exposure to the coronavirus is whether someone is employed in a setting where they must have frequent contact with other people , such as at a grocery store , hospital or construction site . Given the potential for the spread of the coronavirus within households , risk to individuals is also higher if other members of the household are employed in similar settings . Among people who are currently employed full-time , 35 % are working in a job with frequent public contact . Among those working part-time , almost half work ( 48 % ) in such a setting . For those living in a household with other adults , 35 % report that at least one of those individuals is working in a job that requires frequent contact with other people .
A comparison of the activity flags to the final dispositions assigned by the interviewers reveals that while the flag is accurate for the majority of cases , there are both false positives ( numbers flagged as active that are actually nonworking or nonresidential ) and false negatives ( numbers flagged as inactive that are actually working and residential ) . Among the flagged-inactive cases , 15 percent were found to be working and residential ( false negatives ) . Among the flagged-active cases , 10 percent were found to be nonworking or nonresidential ( false positives ) .
Yet the coronavirus outbreak continues to cast a large shadow over the 2020 presidential election . Just half of U.S. registered voters ( 50 % ) say it will be very or somewhat easy to vote in the upcoming elections , while about the same share ( 49 % ) expects to have difficulties casting a ballot . That is a substantial change since October 2018 , shortly before that year 's midterm elections , when 85 % of registered voters said it would be easy to vote .
Democrats are more than twice as likely as Republicans to say gun laws in the U.S. should be stricter than they are today ( 80 % vs. 28 % ) . About half of Republicans say current laws are about right ( 52 % ) , while 20 % say they should be less strict .
Most Americans favor granting permanent legal status to immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children . And a 56 % majority opposes substantially expanding the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border . Nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) of Americans favor granting permanent legal status to immigrants brought to the U.S. illegally when they were children , while just 20 % are opposed , according to a new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted June 5 - 12 among 2,002 adults . Opinions on this issue – and views of expanding the U.S.-Mexico border wall – have changed little since January . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents overwhelmingly favor granting legal status to those who came to the U.S. illegally as children ( 89 % ) , as do about half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 54 % ) ; about a third of Republicans ( 36 % ) oppose this policy . ( The findings in this survey do not relate to the current controversy over separating immigrants from their children at the border , but only to children who had already arrived in the U.S. with their families . )
While making or receiving payments is one of the least common cell phone activities , it is much more common in the region where mobile money is a phenomenon – Africa , and more specifically , Kenya and its neighbor Uganda . Nearly seven-in-ten Kenyans ( 68 % ) who own a cell phone say they regularly use their mobile device to make or receive payments . Half in Uganda say this as well . Meanwhile , even though only 29 % of mobile owners in South Africa and 24 % in Senegal say they use their phones for monetary transactions , these are still among the highest percentages across all the countries surveyed . Only in Russia ( 24 % ) do as many cell owners use their device for such purposes . In the 18 countries surveyed outside of sub-Saharan Africa , a median of only 8 % use their cell phones for making and receiving payments .
The public also is split over the original decision to use military force in Iraq . While 44 % say it was the wrong decision to use force in Iraq , 41 % say it was the right decision .
Obama was by far the most visible candidate in the news last week . Two-thirds of the public ( 67 % ) named Obama as the candidate they 've been hearing the most about in the news in the past week or so . Roughly one-in-five ( 22 % ) named Clinton and just 2 % named McCain . While Obama has remained the most visible candidate for 13 straight weeks , he has not dominated Clinton and McCain to this extent since mid-March when he gave his speech on race and politics .
Republicans ' views of the Census Bureau have grown considerably more positive over the last two years . Today , 83 % of Republicans view the Census Bureau favorably , compared with 66 % who held a favorable view of the agency in 2018 .
The rising political clout of evangelical Christians is not the result of growth in their numbers but rather of their increasing cohesiveness as a key element of the Republican Party . The proportion of the population composed of white evangelicals has changed very little ( 19 % in 1987 ; 22 % now ) and what growth there was occurred in the late 1980s and early 1990s . However , in 1987 , white evangelical Protestants were closely divided in their partisan attachments , with 34 % identifying as Republicans and 29 % as Democrats . The shift toward Republican identification among white evangelicals came in two stages . In the late 1980s , white evangelicals in the South were still mostly wedded to the Democratic Party while evangelicals outside the South were more aligned with the GOP . But over the course of the next decade or so , the GOP made gains among white Southerners generally – and evangelicals in particular – nearly eliminating this regional disparity . Since the election of George W. Bush in 2000 , Republican identification has grown among both Southern and non-Southern evangelicals . Today , Republicans outnumber Democrats among white evangelicals by more than two-to-one ( 51 % -22 % ) , and hold a 63 % -29 % lead when partisan `` leaners '' are included . Although Republican Party identification among both evangelicals and non-evangelicals increased slightly following the September 11 attacks , it has since retreated to pre-9/11 levels for non-evangelicals . Among evangelicals , it has continued to rise . Today , white evangelicals make up 22 % of the population , and constitute nearly four out of every ten ( 39 % ) Republicans .
It 's not that young people are n't looking forward to the Winter Olympics , too : 53 % are looking forward to the Sochi Games , which is roughly the same share as other ages . But they stand out for their anticipation of this year 's World Cup in Brazil in June and July , with the U.S. poised to face an exceptionally tough opening group of opponents . Four-in-ten adults ages 18 - 29 ( 40 % ) are looking forward to the World Cup , compared with just 13 % of adults 50 and older .
Just 3 % of self-reported voters in the 2018 election say it was the first time they had ever voted ; 97 % say they had participated in elections before this year . However , 27 % of midterm voters under age 25 say it was their first time voting . First time voters make up just 5 % of voters ages 25 to 29 and 4 % of those 30 to 39 . Just 1 % of those 40 and older say this . About one-in-ten Hispanic voters ( 12 % ) say this was the first election they had participated in ; by comparison , just 4 % of black voters and 1 % of white voters say this .
Meanwhile , the number of new immigrant arrivals from Mexico has fallen off steeply in recent years . According to a Pew Hispanic Center analysis of Mexican government data , the number of Mexicans annually leaving Mexico for the U.S. declined from more than one million in 2006 to 404,000 in 2010-a 60 % reduction .2 This is likely a result of recent developments in both the U.S. and Mexico . On the U.S. side , declining job opportunities and increased border enforcement ( Passel and Cohn , 2009 ) may have made the U.S. less attractive to potential Mexican immigrants . And in Mexico , recent strong economic growth may have reduced the `` push '' factors that often lead Mexicans to emigrate to the U.S .
Republicans are no more likely to consider their vote as `` against '' the president than they were in early 2010 ( 46 % today , 42 % in February 2010 ) . But Republicans typically vote at higher rates than Democrats in midterm elections . Democratic voters ' lack of enthusiasm for Obama may complicate Democrats ' turnout efforts .
The economic crisis in Europe garnered only modest attention ; 3 % say this was the story they followed most closely , while 15 % say they followed this news very closely . The debt crisis accounted for 4 % of coverage .
In Western European countries , confidence in the U.S. president has declined sharply . Clear majorities in the United Kingdom , France and Germany had at least some confidence in Obama , with shares reaching 93 % in Germany at the start of his presidency . ( German confidence declined somewhat in 2014 after allegations the U.S. National Security Agency eavesdropped on Chancellor Angela Merkel , though it rebounded when the German investigation was later dropped . ) Current Trump confidence ratings in these countries are similar to their respective lows during the George W. Bush years . For example , only 13 % of French respondents had at least some confidence in Bush in 2008 , and now 14 % in France say the same for Trump . Likewise , 14 % of Germans had at least some confidence in Bush in 2008 , while 11 % are confident in Trump now . In Europe , Poland is a bit of an outlier , since its confidence in the U.S. president changed less dramatically across the three administrations . Polish respondents had a Bush-era high of 47 % confidence and an Obama-era high of 64 % , yet just 23 % of Poles have confidence in Trump in 2017 .
Americans ' views vary substantially by race and ethnicity . While most Black ( 75 % ) , Asian ( 70 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 66 % ) say it is at least somewhat important that companies and organizations release statements about political or social issues , this share falls to 42 % among white adults .
Meanwhile , Russian confidence in Obama is now at Bush-era lows . As recently as 2011 , 41 % of Russians had faith in Obama . In 2015 , just 11 % of Russians trust his handling of world affairs , comparable to their 8 % confidence in U.S. President George W. Bush in 2003 .
Among the two-thirds of Republicans who say Trump has definitely or probably not done things that are illegal , nearly all ( 97 % ) say that he should remain in office following the Senate trial . While a majority of the 32 % of Republicans who say Trump has likely done illegal things either during the campaign or while in office also say he should remain in office ( 59 % ) , about four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say the president should be removed from office .
About two-thirds ( 64 % ) of H-1B visa requests in fiscal 2011 were for occupations in the fields of science , technology , engineering and math ( STEM ) , according to the most recently available government data . Nine-in-ten H-1B visa requests ( 90 % ) are for jobs that require some high-level STEM knowledge . Most H-1B applications ( 75 % ) require high-level computer knowledge , and roughly half require significant engineering and math skills . High-level scientific knowledge is less commonly requested .
The support of the U.S. public for general use of drone strikes against suspected terrorists abroad stands in stark contrast to world opinion . Last spring , the Pew Research Center surveyed publics in 20 countries around the world , including the U.S. , and found that in 17 of them , more than half disapproved of the U.S. conducting drone strikes to target extremists in places such as Pakistan , Yemen and Somalia . Disapproval was strongest in Greece ( 90 % ) , Egypt ( 89 % ) , Jordan ( 85 % ) , Turkey ( 81 % ) , Spain ( 76 % ) , Brazil ( 76 % ) and Japan ( 75 % ) . The only countries in the survey , aside from the U.S. , where opposition to the drone campaigns was muted were Britain , where the public was almost evenly divided ( 44 % approve , 47 % disapprove ) and India , where 32 % approved and 21 % disapproved , but nearly half ( 47 % ) had no opinion .
Despite rapid declines in teen birth rates across all major racial and ethnic groups , disparities persist . In 2018 , the birth rate for Hispanic and black teens ages 15 to 19 was almost double the rate among white teens and more than five times as high as the rate among Asians and Pacific Islanders .
Incomes of middle-class households in the U.S. are greater than the incomes of most Western European middle classes . Financially , the American middle class is ahead of the middle classes in the Western European nations in terms of disposable ( after-tax ) household income , with the exception of Luxembourg . Middle-income households in Luxembourg lived on $ 71,799 annually in 2010 , at the median , followed by $ 60,884 in the U.S . The middle class in Italy lived on a median income of $ 35,608 , the most modest means among the countries analyzed . But lower-income Americans are at the middle of the pack in terms of earnings , lagging behind or barely matching lower-income adults in Luxembourg , Norway , the Netherlands and Denmark . ( Incomes are adjusted for household size , scaled to a household size of three , and expressed in 2011 prices and purchasing power parities ; see the report 's Methodology section for more . )
By their own reckoning , Latinos1 living in the United States do not have a national leader . When asked in an open-ended question to name the person they consider `` the most important Latino leader in the country today , '' nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of Hispanic respondents said they did not know . An additional 10 % said `` no one . ''
Public views of artificial intelligence , described for survey respondents as computer systems designed to imitate human behaviors , are generally viewed positively by publics in the Asia-Pacific region . A median of two-thirds in the Asia-Pacific say that AI has been a good thing for society , while a median of 20 % say it has been a bad thing . Elsewhere public views are mixed . In Europe a median of 47 % say the development of AI has been good for society . Roughly half view AI positively in Brazil ( 53 % ) , Russia ( 52 % ) , the U.S. ( 47 % ) and Canada ( 46 % ) .
Certain segments of the population , though , diverge on what they tie to the issue of made-up news and information , with some of the most notable differences occurring along party lines . As previous research has shown , Republicans and Democrats hardly see eye to eye in their views of the news media and President Trump – a split that extends to how often members of each party connect these actors to made-up news . Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say the news media comes to mind when thinking of made-up news : 23 % of Republicans and GOP-leaning independents say this , compared with 15 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents , an 8-percentage-point difference . Among those who mention a specific news outlet , Republicans are more likely to mention CNN ( 6 % vs. less than 1 % ) while Democrats are more likely to mention Fox News ( 7 % vs. 1 % ) . On the flip side , Democrats are about twice as likely as Republicans to name Trump or his administration ( 16 % vs. 7 % , respectively ) .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted June 12 - 16 among 1,512 adults , finds that Obama is likely benefitting from more positive perceptions of the national economy . Yet the public 's economic views look good only when compared with the dismal attitudes of the past five years . Take evaluations of local job availability : 29 % now say that there are plenty of jobs available in their community , the most positive measure since July 2008 . Roughly twice as many ( 64 % ) say that jobs are difficult to find .
Tunisians show overwhelming support for Prime Minister Mehdi Jomaa , a newcomer to national politics who took office in January 2014 . Roughly eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) express a favorable opinion of Jomaa , while just 11 % give him a negative rating . About half ( 51 % ) also give a favorable rating to Beji Caid Essebsi , chairman and presidential candidate for the secular Nidaa Tounes party , up 10 percentage points since last year . While Jomaa receives very positive ratings , public opinion of other politicians reflects the disappointment in national leadership during Tunisia 's democratic transition . Hamadi Jebali , the former Ennahda prime minister , has seen a substantial dip in popularity since leaving office . In 2012 , 66 % of Tunisians gave him a favorable rating . Today , just 43 % give him positive marks . Approval of Interim President Moncef Marzouki has also declined . Roughly a third ( 34 % ) expresses favorable opinions of the Congress for the Republic party 's founder , a drop of ten percentage points over the last year . Tunisians also give lackluster ratings to President of the Constituent Assembly Mustapha Ben Jaafar , Ennahda party leader Rached Ghannouchi , Secretary-General of the Republican Party Maya Jribi , and Secretary-General of the Party of Progressive Conservatives Hachmi Hamdi , on par with their ratings in 2013 .
The share of the public holding positive views is similar to April , when 23 % of Americans rated the economy as excellent or good , but remain significantly more negative than they were in January , prior to the coronavirus outbreak in the U.S. , when 57 % of Americans rated the economy as excellent or good . While overall views of the economy are little changed over the last two months , assessments of the economy have grown more positive among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents : 46 % now rate the economy as excellent or good , up from 37 % in April . As was the case in April , only about one-in-ten ( 9 % ) Democrats and Democratic leaners currently rate the economy as excellent or good .
Partisans also continue to have contrasting expectations for the next generation . Again , overall opinions have changed little since last year . And more people say the future for the next generation of Americans will be worse today ( 48 % ) than did so in either 2009 ( 32 % ) or 2008 ( 34 % ) , during the economic recession . Among members of both parties , more say prospects for the next generation will be worse than better . Among Republicans , 46 % say the future for the next generation will be worse , while 30 % say it will be better and 21 % about the same . Still , this represents a sharp improvement in opinion among Republicans since last year , when 61 % said the future would be worse and just 16 % better ( 18 % said about the same ) .
About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of adults say vaccinations should be required and 30 % say parents should be able to decide . By contrast , 86 % of AAAS scientists say all children should be required to be vaccinated . In the general public survey , those more likely to say parents should be able to decide include younger adults , Republicans and independents . There are no significant differences in views about this issue by gender , education or race and ethnicity .
Despite that boom , a new survey of 1,300 local television news directors produced by RTDNA and Hofstra University paints a mixed picture of the staffing and spending patterns in local television news . The overall number of staff working in local TV newsrooms declined slightly in 2013 , and salaries for on-air anchors and reporters stagnated . At the same time , news budgets were generally higher last year , and more stations than ever are now airing regular newscasts . Salaries for on-air staffers were flat . The median salary for a news anchor dropped from $ 64,000 in 2012 to 62,500 last year . Meteorologists ' salaries were almost the same , at $ 55,500 , in 2013 and $ 55,000 in 2012 . But they are down from $ 60,000 in 2011 . Sports anchors earned the same pay — $ 45,000 — in each of the past three years . News reporters saw a slight uptick — from $ 30,000 in 2012 to $ 31,000 in 2013 — but they earned $ 32,000 in 2011 . The staffers who saw the largest increase in pay ( 10 % ) in 2013 were the stations ' graphic specialists , highlighting the growing value of those skilled at producing better storytelling TV visuals .
Despite overwhelming concerns about crime and drug-related violence and negative assessments of the country 's economy and overall direction , most Mexicans continue to say that President Calderón and the national government are having a positive impact on the country . Nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) say the president 's influence is good , while 39 % describe it as bad ; 54 % give the national government a positive rating , while 41 % say the government is having a negative influence . Compared with two years ago , however , views of Calderón and the government have become increasingly negative . In 2009 , three-quarters said Calderón was having a positive influence and 72 % said the same about the national government ; just 22 % and 26 % gave the president and the government , respectively , a negative rating .
The public sees this gap as an ongoing fact of life . A separate survey conducted in April 2012 found that Americans agreed by a 76 % to 23 % margin with the statement that `` today it 's really true that the rich just get richer while the poor get poorer . '' That gap had grown since Aug. 2002 when the margin was 65 % to 33 % , but the size of it was not much different than it was in 1987 .
We took a look at the data and found that high-income Americans pay the most in income taxes – though people can and will differ on whether it 's enough to be `` fair . '' As for corporations , it 's true they are funding a smaller share of overall government operations than they used to , and corporate tax receipts have n't kept pace with the overall growth of the U.S. economy .
Such studies typically find that consumption inequality is less than income inequality , though still significant . A 2012 study from the American Enterprise Institute , using data from the Consumer Expenditure Survey ( CES ) , found that the top 20 % of households by income accounted for nearly 40 % of total expenditures , while the bottom 20 % accounted for less than 10 % of expenditures . As the chart shows , the gap between the top and bottom has remained relatively constant – a finding that echoes those of other consumption-oriented researchers . Wolff found that in 1962 , the top 1 % of households held 33.4 % of all wealth ; in 2013 their share was 36.7 % . The biggest increase came in the next-wealthiest tier , representing 4 % of households : Their share of wealth rose from 21.2 % in 1962 to 28.2 % in 2013 . As for the bottom 40 % ? Their share fluctuated between 1.5 % and -0.9 % ( i.e. , negative net worth ) for the entire five-decade period Wolff studied .
When asked about societal priorities around family , voters are somewhat less likely to say that society is better off if people make marriage and having children a priority than they were four years ago ( 36 % today , 42 % in 2016 ) . As was the case in 2016 , a slim majority of Trump 's voters this year say this ( 55 % today , 57 % in 2016 ) . But Biden voters are slightly more likely today to say that society is just as well off if people have priorities other than marriage and children than Clinton voters were in 2016 ( 77 % today , 69 % in 2016 ) .
Population growth among U.S. Hispanics has slowed since the start of the decade . From 2015 to 2019 , the nation 's Hispanic population grew by an average of 1.9 % per year – similar to the 2.1 % annual growth between 2010 and 2015 , but down from annual growth of more than 3 % in earlier years .
The Supreme Court 's decision in the case could impact how the public views the institution . Americans ' views of the high court are near their lowest point in at least the past few decades . As the court has handed down decisions on highly politicized cases in recent years , it has seen ebbs and flows in support from Democrats and Republicans . For example , after the Supreme Court ruled to keep intact much of the health care law in summer 2012 , 64 % of Democrats said they viewed the court favorably , compared with just 38 % of Republicans . But after the court 's session last June , which included a conservative victory on contraception in the Hobby Lobby case , the court 's favorability rose to 53 % among Republicans and fell to 52 % among Democrats . Overall , we found in that survey last July , about half of the public ( 52 % ) had a favorable opinion of the Supreme Court and 38 % viewed it unfavorably .
In the current survey , 79 % of Democrats approve of the way Obama is handling his job as president . About as many independents approve ( 41 % ) as disapprove ( 46 % ) . Just 12 % of Republicans approve of the way Obama is handling his job .
A host of major news stories have been competing for Americans ' attention in recent weeks . But the public is more likely to have heard `` a lot '' about ongoing confrontations between police and protesters than several other stories , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Aug. 31 to Sept. 7 . Two other news stories asked about in the survey made less of an impression on the public . Three-in-ten Americans say they have heard or read a lot about the debate over whether professional and college sports should be played in the current environment , and only around two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say the same about discussions of the extent of child abuse and trafficking in the United States .
At this point in the race four years ago , Rudy Giuliani was far better known ; 45 % could name the former New York City mayor unprompted . Even more could name the two leading Democratic candidates at the time , Hillary Clinton ( 78 % ) and Barack Obama ( 62 % ) .
A survey of 20 countries conducted last spring by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project found a median of 67 % of social networkers say they use these sites to share opinions about music and movies . Significant numbers also post their views on community issues , sports and politics .
Between 2006 - 2008 and 2011 - 2012 , confidence in government fell by at least six percentage points in 18 of the 34 member nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , according to Gallup data compiled in a new report , `` Government at a Glance 2o13 . '' The steepest drop was in Ireland , where the share of people answering `` yes '' to the question `` In this country , do you have confidence in each of the following , or not ? How about national government ? '' tumbled from 63 % in 2006 to 35 % six years later . On average , just 40 % of people in OECD countries said they had confidence in their national governments , down from an average of 45 % in 2007 . Confidence levels ranged from 77 % in Switzerland to 13 % in Greece ; in the U.S. , confidence was 35 % . Public confidence in government was higher in the so-called BRIICS countries — Brazil , Russia , India , Indonesia , China and South Africa — averaging 54 % , about the same as in 2007 ( though there was no earlier reading for China ) . That was despite a 27-percentage-point fall in government confidence in India , from 82 % to 55 % .
In the eyes of Americans , the second-most memorable event in modern U.S.-German relations has been the fall of the Berlin Wall : 28 % say that is their most significant memory . Other moments in postwar relations hardly register : 8 % cite the disagreement between the administration of U.S. President George W. Bush and of German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder over the Iraq War , 7 % mention U.S. monitoring of German Chancellor Angela Merkel 's communications , and just 3 % name the postwar Marshall Plan .
As Americans look ahead to the presidential election this November , nearly eight-in-ten adults ( 79 % ) say it is at least somewhat important for the losing candidate to publicly acknowledge the winner of the election as legitimate , including a majority ( 54 % ) who say this is very important . This represents a slight increase since November 2016 , when 74 % said it was at least somewhat important for a losing candidate to publicly concede .
There also is a 25-point partisan gap in views of whether Russia 's power and influence constitute a major threat ( 63 % of Democrats , 38 % of Republicans ) , and an 18-point gap on Iran 's nuclear program ( 63 % of Republicans , 45 % of Democrats ) . For many years , Republicans and Democrats generally shared the same views about whether Russia represented a major threat to the U.S . In 2014 , 58 % of Republicans and 50 % of Democrats said `` growing authoritarianism in Russia '' was a major threat and as recently as last year , 37 % of Democrats and 46 % of Republicans described `` tensions with Russia '' as a major threat . But partisan differences increased sharply after the presidential election , amid reports that Russia interfered in the campaign . In January , 67 % of Democrats and 41 % of Republicans said Russia 's power and influence were a major threat . These views have changed little since January ; currently , 63 % of Democrats and 38 % of Republicans say Russia is a major threat to the U.S .
An estimated 1.4 million Hispanics of Guatemalan origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Guatemalans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Guatemalan origin ; this includes immigrants from Guatemala and those who trace their family ancestry to Guatemala . Guatemalans are the sixth-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 2 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Guatemalan-origin population has increased 255 % , growing from 406,000 to 1.4 million over the period . At the same time , the Guatemalan foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 171 % , from 319,000 in 2000 to 864,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
With U.S. auto executives testifying on Capitol Hill and dramatic fluctuations on Wall Street , the public stayed focused on economic news last week . Fully 59 % followed news about the economy very closely , up marginally from the previous week . Half followed stock market news very closely , only slightly less than the percentage that followed the market 's dramatic downturn last month . In addition , 41 % paid very close attention to the debate in Congress over a government bailout for the U.S. auto industry . Interest in the plight of the Big Three increased dramatically from the previous week , when 30 % were following the problems of the auto industry very closely . When asked which news story they followed most closely last week , 27 % listed general economic conditions making it the public 's top news interest of the week . Some 15 % listed the stock market as their most closely followed story , and 14 % pointed to the potential bailout for the car companies .
Even before any departures resulting from this week 's meeting , United Methodists have been shrinking considerably as a share of the U.S. population , part of a broader trend among U.S. Christians and particularly mainline Protestants . Our 2014 study found that United Methodists make up 3.6 % of the U.S. adult population – down from 5.1 % in 2007 . ( Mainline Protestants as a whole declined from 18.1 % of the adult population to 14.7 % over that seven-year period . )
Yet those who rely on mobile devices for online access face job-seeking challenges , ranging from data caps on a smartphone plan to attempting to craft a resume or apply for a job on a device that was not built for extensive text entry . One-quarter of `` smartphone only '' users have used a smartphone to fill out a job application online , and 13 % have used a smartphone to create a resume or cover letter .
Four years after the launch of the U.S. led invasion on March 19 , 2003 , public opinion about the war in Iraq has turned decidedly negative . Most Americans regret the decision to use military force . Majorities believe the war is not going well , and most say that the United States should bring its troops home as soon as possible . In contrast , when the war began in March 2003 and for quite some time thereafter , the U.S.-led invasion had strong backing from most Americans , and was seen as succeeding quite well .
While the library is seen as one useful resource , the survey also found that 55 % of adults say that training to gain confidence in using computers , smartphones and the internet would help in making decisions . Blacks and Hispanics are more likely than whites to believe training would help them , both in how to use online resources and in gaining confidence with digital tools . Similarly , those with less than a high school diploma are more likely than those with at least a bachelor 's degree to think training would help . And women are slightly more likely than men to express this view .
Biden supporters say they 'd be relieved if he wins and angry if Trump wins . A majority of Biden supporters ( 77 % ) say they would be relieved if he wins the election ; just 16 % say they 'd be excited . And a larger share of Biden supporters ( 61 % ) say they would be angry if Trump wins , compared with Hillary Clinton supporters in 2016 ( 46 % angry ) . Today , more Trump supporters say they would be relieved ( 61 % ) than excited ( 30 % ) if their candidate wins this year . And while 37 % of Trump supporters say they would be angry if Biden wins , that is lower than the share who said they would be angry if Clinton won in 2016 ( 46 % ) .
Public interest in the disaster remains strong . More than six-in-ten ( 63 % ) say they followed news about the oil leak more closely than any other story last week . A majority ( 56 % ) says the press has done an excellent or good job in covering the leak , though that is down from 66 % in early May . With so much public attention focused on the oil leak , only small percentages say they followed any of the other top stories most closely last week . Just 10 % say this about the second ranked story , news about the economy . Fewer name the World Cup soccer tournament in South Africa ( 6 % ) , the situation and events in Afghanistan ( 3 % ) , drug-related violence in Mexico ( 2 % ) or ethnic violence in Kyrgyzstan ( 1 % ) . More than half of Americans ( 55 % ) say they followed news about the oil leak very closely last week , while 38 % say the same about the economy . About one-in-five ( 21 % ) say they followed news about Afghanistan very closely . Almost as many say the same about drug violence in Mexico ( 17 % ) ; 11 % followed news about the World Cup very closely and 6 % followed news out of Kyrgyzstan very closely .
After years of trying to persuade Hispanics to choose a standard race category , the Census Bureau has been testing a new approach , with what the agency says are promising results . In 2015 , the bureau contacted 1.2 million U.S. households for a test census that experimented with two different ways of combining the Hispanic and race questions into one question ( and included a proposed new `` Middle Eastern or North African '' category as well ) . Respondents could self-identify in as many categories as they wanted , or only one .
Women continue to outpace men in terms of educational attainment , though both groups are making gains at a fairly similar rate . A larger share of female 25- to 34-year-olds ( 52 % ) had finished college in 2016 than their male counterparts ( 43 % ) .
Majorities of Muslims surveyed by Pew say that `` Western style democracy '' can work in their own country , with Indonesia a notable exception . Few Muslims say that democracy is `` a Western way of doing things that would not work here . '' The latter view is expressed by a majority of Indonesians ( 53 % ) , and sizable minorities in Turkey and the Palestinian Authority both at 37 % .
Young adults generally are more focused than their elders when it comes to online privacy . Younger adults are more likely to know that personal information about them is available online and to have experienced privacy problems . By the same token , our surveys have found that those ages 18 to 29 are more likely than older adults to say they have paid attention to privacy issues , tried to protect their privacy and reported some kind of harm because of privacy problems . They are more likely to have limited the amount of personal information available about them online , changed privacy settings , deleted unwanted comments on social media , removed their name from photos in which they were tagged , and taken steps to mask their identities while online . It is also true that younger adults are more likely to have shared personal information online .
The public 's views of news about the overall economy have improved since last month : 60 % say they are hearing mixed news , while 33 % say the news is mostly bad and 5 % say the economic news is mostly good . Last month , 38 % said the news was mostly bad . But in January , just 24 % said news about the economy was mostly bad . Perceptions of economic news have fluctuated since mid-2009 – along with the ups and downs of an economy struggling to recover . During the first half of 2010 , about two-thirds of the public said they were hearing a mix of good and bad economic news , but then perceptions grew more negative as the recovery stalled . In January , 68 % said they were hearing mixed economic news while just 24 % said the news was mostly bad . By March , just 53 % said they were hearing mixed news and 38 % said they were hearing mostly bad news . In the new survey , 60 % say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy while 33 % say the news is mostly bad .
The public is closely split on some other major debates surrounding the content of games and their impact on users . For instance , a quarter of all adults ( 26 % ) think most video games are a waste of time , while 24 % think most games are not a waste of time . One-third think some games are a waste of time while others are not . And 16 % of the public is unsure what to think about this issue . A similar pattern is evident on the question of whether or not `` most games help develop good problem solving and strategic thinking skills . '' Some 17 % of adults think this is true of most games , while 16 % think this is not true of most games . Additionally , 47 % think this is true of some games but not others , and 20 % are not sure . Asked whether games promote teamwork and communication , 23 % of adults do not think most games promote these traits – more than double the 10 % who think most games do promote these qualities . Some 37 % think some games but not others promote teamwork and communication , while 28 % say they are unsure . Similarly , 30 % of adults do not think most games are a better form of entertainment than TV , almost triple the 11 % who think this is true .
When considering the broader question of whether it is possible to reduce environmental regulations while protecting the environment , there is a strong divide in public opinion . About half ( 49 % ) of the public says it is possible to cut back on environmental regulations and still effectively protect air and water quality , while a similar share ( 47 % ) says this is not possible . There are large partisan divides on this issue . By a 63 % -35 % margin , most Republicans and Republican leaners hold that it is possible to cut back on environmental regulations and still effectively protect air and water quality in the U.S .
Even though Japanese voters say they will back the LDP in the upcoming election , they reject amending the constitution . A majority ( 56 % ) opposes Japan officially having a military and the ability to declare war . But that opposition has declined by 11 percentage points since 2006 , when 67 % were against constitutional revision . Such findings may be one reason why Abe advisers say that , whatever the outcome of the July 21 vote , they may forego any effort to formally amend the constitution . Instead , they may simply interpret Article 9 more broadly , to enable Tokyo to play a larger military role in the world .
Overall , few assess the American response to the coronavirus outbreak positively . In no country surveyed do more than a fifth think the U.S. has done at least a somewhat good job dealing with the virus , and a median of only 15 % across the 13 countries polled consider the country 's handling of the virus to be effective . On the flip side , in every country surveyed , roughly eight-in-ten or more say the U.S. has handled the virus badly . And , in 11 of the 13 countries surveyed , half or more say the U.S. has done a very bad job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak . These numbers are particularly low when compared to how publics think other countries and organizations have handled the outbreak . Consistently , the shares who think the U.S. has responded well to the virus are surpassed by those who think the same of China , the EU , the WHO and their own country . Only in Japan does the comparison between the U.S. and China coronavirus response come close : 15 % think the U.S. has done a good job dealing with the outbreak and 16 % think the same of China . In most countries , at least half or more believe their country has done a good job dealing with the virus . However , the U.S. and UK are notable outliers , with 47 % and 46 % of people in each country , respectively , saying their nation has done at least a somewhat good job dealing with the outbreak .
When assessing their overall behavior , one-quarter of U.S. adults ( 25 % ) say they make an effort to live in ways that help protect the environment `` all the time , '' up modestly from 20 % in 2016 . Another 63 % report they live in environmentally conscious ways some of the time . Just 11 % say they do not try at all to live in environmentally conscious ways or do so not too often .
Three main election themes dominated the coverage . The end of the presidential campaign — which encompassed coverage on just two days , was the No . 1 story , accounting for 27 % of the week 's newshole . Coverage of the election results — including straight reporting and analysis — was No . 2 , filling another 21 % . And coverage of the incoming Obama administration — which began on Nov. 5 and looked forward — was right behind , also accounting for 21 % of the newshole .
The Trump administration and governments in Ottawa and Mexico City have indicated they will renegotiate the trilateral , quarter-century-old North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) . While the existing accord enjoys the support of roughly three-quarters of the Canadian public and six-in-ten Mexicans , it is viewed less favorably in the United States , with Republicans far less supportive than Democrats , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of all three countries . About half of Americans ( 51 % ) say NAFTA has been a good thing for the U.S. , including 11 % who say it has been very good . That compares with 74 % of Canadians who say the agreement has been good for Canada , including 20 % who say it has been very good . Among Mexicans , 60 % see NAFTA as being good for their country , including 10 % who hold that view strongly . These differences in views may , in part , reflect the fact that both Canada and Mexico run merchandise trade surpluses with the U.S . In 2016 , the U.S. ran a collective $ 74 billion trade goods deficit with its two NAFTA partners .
Democrats continue to hold a significant lead over Republicans in political party identification among Latino registered voters . About two-thirds ( 64 % ) of voters say they identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party while 24 % say the same about the Republican Party .
Latino adults also see upward mobility in their children 's futures . Fully 72 % say they expect their children will be better off financially than they themselves are now . 2
Approval of Turnbull 's handling of world affairs comes at a time when Australians are ambivalent about global engagement : About half say that Australia should deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their own , while 45 % say that Australia should help other countries . When asked whether Australia should deal with its own problems and let other countries fend for themselves or help other countries deal with their problems , the public is almost evenly split . About half ( 49 % ) prefer to focus on their own country 's problems , while 45 % say they want to help other countries . Australian sentiment is similar to that in the UK ( where 43 % say to help other countries ) , and a slightly larger share favors global engagement than in the U.S. ( 37 % help others ) .
A near-consensus of Democratic voters say climate change is a problem for the U.S . Among Democratic registered voters ( including those who lean to the Democratic Party ) who support any of the five leading candidates for their party 's nomination as of mid-January , more than nine-in-ten say climate change is at least a moderately big problem for the country today – including three-quarters or more who say it 's a very big problem . There are some differences in voters ' degree of concern : Joe Biden and Michael Bloomberg supporters are slightly less likely to describe climate change as a very big problem , compared with supporters of other candidates . As with other issues related to climate and the environment , the partisan divide on this question is large : Just 41 % of Republican registered voters ( including those who lean to the GOP ) say climate change is a moderately or very big problem for the country .
Majorities in all 14 countries surveyed agree that global climate change and the spread of infectious diseases pose major threats to their country . Concern about climate change is especially high in Spain , France , Italy , South Korea and Japan , with at least eight-in-ten in each country describing it as a major threat .
Americans think the effectiveness of treatments for the coronavirus have improved since the early stages of the outbreak : Nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) say treatments and drugs for people with COVID-19 have gotten a lot ( 37 % ) or a little ( 41 % ) better .
Moreover , there is considerable evidence that the opinion many Muslims have of the United States has gone beyond mere loathing . In this year 's Pew survey , majorities in seven of eight predominantly Muslims nations believe the U.S. may someday threaten their country — including 71 % in Turkey and 58 % in Lebanon . And Muslims are increasingly hostile to Americans as well as America ; in the past , as the 1983 Newsweek survey showed , people did not let their distaste for U.S. policies affect their view of the American people . In addition , an overwhelming percentage in most Muslim nations — and as many as half or more in countries like Brazil and South Korea — said they were disappointed that the Iraqi military put up so little resistance in the war against the United States .
An overwhelming majority of black Americans see the treatment of racial and ethnic minorities as a key issue to their vote in 2016 . Fully 82 % of blacks overall say this issue is very important , and it is among the highest on this group 's 2016 agenda . Nearly three-quarters of Hispanic voters ( 72 % ) also say the treatment of racial and ethnic minorities is a very important issue to their decision in the fall . Both blacks and Hispanics are more likely than white voters to say this issue is very important to their vote , though a 56 % majority of white Americans do say the same .
Support for internet freedom is especially strong in Argentina ( 71 % very important ) , the U.S. , Germany and Spain ( each 69 % ) , and Chile ( 68 % ) . In many countries , young people , those with more years of education and high-income respondents tend to place a higher value on internet freedom .
There is a similar shift of public trust in scientists . Among Democrats , 52 % have a great deal of confidence in scientists to act in the public interest , up from 43 % in 2019 . By contrast , there has been no change in Republicans ' trust : 27 % have a great deal of confidence in scientists , the same as in 2019 . Thus , there is a growing partisan divide when it comes to confidence in scientists . ( The survey asked a random half of respondents to rate their confidence in medical scientists and the other random half to rate their confidence in scientists . )
No one story dominated the public 's news interest last week , as several story lines – including the debate over a mosque near Ground Zero in New York and the recall of hundreds of millions of eggs – vied for Americans ' attention . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed the debate over plans for an Islamic cultural center and mosque in downtown Manhattan more closely than other major stories . A comparable number ( 16 % ) say they followed the recall of more than half a billion eggs after an outbreak of salmonella most closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Aug. 26 - 29 among 1002 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . As summer neared an end , the media also divided its attention among several top stories . The 2010 elections accounted for 14 % of the newshole and stories examining New Orleans and the Gulf Coast five years after Hurricane Katrina made up another 11 % , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . The debate over the New York Islamic center accounted for 6 % of coverage , while the egg recall made up 4 % .
By a ratio of nearly four-to-one , adults in this country say that American parents are placing too little ( 56 % ) rather than too much ( 15 % ) pressure on students , with the remaining quarter ( 24 % ) saying that parents are exerting the right amount of pressure . Parents and non-parents feel roughly the same way about this question , the survey finds . So do Republicans and Democrats , blacks and whites , older adults and younger adults , people with low incomes and those with high incomes , and people with college degrees and those with a just a high school education or less . The only demographic gap in attitudes about this question — and it 's not especially wide — comes on the gender front . More men ( 62 % ) than women ( 51 % ) say parents are n't being tough enough . Roughly six-in-ten Japanese ( 59 % ) say all this pressure is too much , while 30 % feel the demands are about right . Only 9 % say students need more parental pressure — a figure that stands in stark contrast to the 56 % of Americans who feel this way about students here .
GOP members of Congress are n't the only Republicans disappointed with the party 's policies . In January , even before the debt ceiling vote , just 28 % of Republicans and Republican leaners said the GOP was doing a good or excellent job in standing up for its traditional positions of smaller government , tax-cutting and conservative social values , while seven-in-ten ( 70 % ) rated their party 's job as `` only fair '' or `` poor . '' The percentage of Republicans and leaners who rate the party 's performance positively has fallen 12 points since the GOP took control of the House in November 2010 , according to a Pew Research survey last month . Over the past decade , the only time Republicans have been more negative about their party was in April 2009 — in the wake of Barack Obama 's election victory — when 21 % rated the job it was doing as excellent or good . Democrats , on the other hand , have become more likely to say their party is standing up for its traditional positions . Roughly half of Democrats and those who lean Democratic ( 49 % ) rated their party as doing an excellent or good job on things such as protecting minorities ' interests , representing working people and helping the poor and needy . This is up 11 points from August 2011 , but about the same as November 2010 .
Among Hispanics , more immigrants ( 94 % ) than the U.S. born ( 82 % ) support allowing undocumented immigrants to stay in the U.S. legally . Majorities of black ( 81 % ) , Asian ( 76 % ) and white adults ( 70 % ) also express support .
A nationwide Pew Research Center survey in August found that substantial percentages of blacks see unfair treatment in many aspects of life , especially by the criminal justice system . Fully 70 % said that blacks in their community were treated less fairly than whites in dealing with the police and about as many ( 68 % ) said the same about the courts . By contrast , just 37 % of whites said blacks were treated less fairly by the police and 27 % said they received less fair treatment by the courts .
Conservatives gravitate toward Fox News . A separate Pew Research report on polarization and media habits found that 47 % of consistent conservatives ( and 31 % of people with mostly conservative views ) cited Fox News as their main source for news about government and politics ; no other news source came close . And 88 % of consistent conservatives said they trusted Fox News – by far the highest level of trust by any ideological group of any single news source among the 36 we asked about .
Americans are closely divided in their view of the news media 's coverage of climate change . Some 47 % of U.S. adults say the media does a good job covering global climate change , while 51 % say they do a bad job . A 58 % majority of people following climate news very closely say the media do a good job , however . Conservative Republicans stand out as more negative in their overall views about climate change news coverage .
Like Muslims elsewhere in Europe , the French also worry more generally about the future of Muslims in their country — though , in this case , Muslims in France are significantly less worried than those in Great Britain . A majority ( 57 % ) is also at least somewhat concerned about the declining importance of religion among their co-religionists in France , though again , British Muslims are more troubled on this score with 73 % sharing the worry . ( In this , as in other questions in the survey , no significant difference is seen among the responses of French Muslims of Algerian , Moroccan or other ethnicity . )
Roughly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) followed the floods in the Midwest very closely , up from 34 % a week earlier . The floods were the public 's top story last week with twice as many people citing the floods as their most closely followed story than cited the presidential campaign ( 38 % vs. 19 % ) . By contrast , news organizations devoted somewhat more coverage to the campaign than to the flooding . Still , public interest in Midwestern flooding is far lower than it was for the region 's historic 1993 floods . In August 1993 , nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) followed the flooding very closely .
When Congress created the Postal Service to replace the old Post Office Department , it mandated that the new agency support itself through its own revenues , rather than relying on federal appropriations . However , the last year the Postal Service recorded any profit was 2006 , and its cumulative losses since then totaled $ 83.1 billion as of March 31 . The Postal Service also owes $ 11 billion to the Treasury and more than $ 59 billion in required but unpaid contributions to its employee pension and retiree-health funds .
People see the internet as a good influence on education , but are skeptical of its effect on morality . Overall , people in the emerging and developing countries surveyed see the internet as having a positive effect on education , personal relationships and the economy . But they are wary about its impact on politics and especially on morality . A median of 42 % across 32 countries say that the internet is a bad influence on morality .
Despite these tensions and a history of hostility between the two nations , most want better relations and deeper economic ties with Pakistan . More than eight-in-ten Indians ( 83 % ) say it is important that relations with Pakistan improve , while more than six-in-ten ( 63 % ) believe an increase in trade and business ties between the two countries would be good for India . And 63 % also favor further talks between India and Pakistan to reduce tensions .
The survey examines public attitudes about the potential use of three emerging technologies that could fundamentally improve people 's health , cognitive abilities or physical capacities . The specific examples were : gene editing to give babies a lifetime with much reduced risk of serious disease , implanting brain chips to give people a much improved ability to concentrate and process information and transfusing of synthetic blood to give people much greater speed , strength and stamina . These are just three of many enhancements that scientists and bioethicists say could arise from biomedical technologies now under development . None of the three are currently available for the purpose of enhancing otherwise healthy babies or adults , though all are in a research and development phase or are being tested in very limited circumstances for therapeutic uses , such as helping patients to recover from a stroke or spinal cord injury . ( For background see `` Human Enhancement : The Scientific and Ethical Dimensions of Striving for Perfection . '' ) The survey data show several patterns surrounding Americans ' wariness about these developments . First , there are strong differences in views about using these technologies for enhancement depending on how religious people are . In general , the most religious are the most wary about potential enhancements . For example , those who score high on a three-item index of religious commitment1 are more likely than those who are lower in religious commitment to say all three types of enhancement – gene editing to give babies a lifetime with much reduced risk of disease , brain chip implants to give people much improved cognitive abilities and transfusions with synthetic blood to give people much improved physical capacities – would be meddling with nature and crossing a line that should not be crossed . Americans who have lower levels of religious commitment are more inclined to see the potential use of these techniques as just the continuation of a centuries-old quest by humans to try to better themselves .
When it comes to policies aimed at reducing the effects of global climate change , about half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) believe these policies have net benefits for the environment . Three-in-ten say these policies make no difference for the environment and about two-in-ten ( 19 % ) believe these policies end up doing more harm than good for the environment . As with other climate issues , there are sizable political divides over the effects of climate policies . About eight-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 78 % ) say climate change policies do more good than harm , compared with 56 % of moderate or conservative Democrats . Republicans are more inclined to believe such policies have little impact or bring net harm to the environment . Among conservative Republicans , about half ( 48 % ) say these policies make no difference and three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say these policies do more harm than good for the environment .
If the national exit poll 's estimate proves correct that 10 % of all voters this year were Hispanic , it would mean that as many as 12.5 million Hispanics cast ballots . But perhaps a more illuminating way to analyze the distinctive characteristics of the Hispanic electorate—current and future—is to parse the more than 40 million Hispanics in the United States who did not vote or were not eligible to vote in 2012 . That universe can be broken down as follows : This turnout could rise even more if naturalization rates among the 5.4 million adult Hispanic legal permanent residents were to increase over time—and/or if Congress were to pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill that creates a pathway to citizenship for the more than 7 million unauthorized Hispanic immigrants already living in the U.S .
The 2010 congressional elections dominated news coverage last week , but not the public 's attention . Americans continued to focus most closely on news about the nation 's struggling economy and about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say news reports portray the economy `` about the way it really is . '' Looking at the public 's news interest last week , nearly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say they followed news about the economy most closely , while 12 % say they followed news about this year 's congressional elections that closely . The media devoted 26 % of its coverage to the November midterms , nearly three times the 9 % of newshole taken up by economic news , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism .
According to the new Hispanic survey , about six-in-ten ( 59 % ) Hispanic immigrants and 46 % of all Hispanics say they worry `` a lot '' or worry `` some '' that they themselves , a family member or a close friend could be deported . By contrast , just 18 % of Asian-American immigrants and 16 % of all Asian Americans say the same .
Solid majorities favor both initiating talks with Iran and Syria to encourage cooperation on Iraq ( 66 % ) , and trying harder to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict ( 59 % ) . An April 2007 Pew survey finds that opinion on these proposals has changed little since December , when they were first recommended by the panel led by James Baker and Lee Hamilton . Support for shifting the primary mission of U.S. troops from fighting insurgents to supporting the Iraqi army as declined somewhat from December , although a majority still supports the idea ; 55 % favor this proposal now , compared with 62 % in December . The most contentious recommendation by the Baker-Hamilton commission was that the U.S. should end its support of the Iraqi government if it failed to make substantial progress . A narrow majority ( 52 % ) supports this proposal , while 36 % are opposed . Opinion on this proposal is also virtually unchanged since December when 52 % favored the recommendations and 38 % opposed it .
Partisan differences in opinions about gun control have widened in recent years . Before 2009 , no more than about six-in-ten Republicans prioritized gun rights over gun control . In six surveys since April 2009 , between 65 % and 72 % ( in the current survey ) of Republicans have said it is more important to protect gun rights . Independents also have become more supportive of gun rights . Currently , 55 % say it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns ; 40 % say it is more important to control gun ownership . That is little changed from surveys conducted since 2009 . In prior surveys , majorities of independents said it was more important to control gun ownership than to protect gun rights . Democrats ' opinions have shown far less change over time . In the current survey , 67 % of Democrats say it is more important to control gun ownership , compared with just 27 % who say it is more important to protect gun rights .
Majorities of Americans say the federal government does not provide enough help for older people ( 65 % ) , poor people ( 62 % ) and the middle class ( 61 % ) . By contrast , nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) say the government provides too much help for wealthy people .
President Bush is facing an electorate that is almost as focused on the economy as it was in the fall of 1991 , when rising economic concern began to unravel his father 's reelection chances . In an open-ended format , nearly half ( 49 % ) of Americans volunteer the economy or jobs as the single issues they most want the presidential candidates to discuss . That is considerably higher than levels measured at various points during the last two presidential campaigns and is nearly as high as in October 1991 ( 58 % ) , although more Americans focused on jobs at that time than now .
A widespread majority of Americans ( 72 % ) see Germany as a reliable ally , including nearly a quarter ( 24 % ) who thinks of Germany as very reliable . Older Americans ( 77 % ) have more faith in Germany than younger ones do ( 66 % ) .
Eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaners ( 80 % ) now say they agree with Trump on many or all issues , up 11 percentage points from last August . Nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they agree on `` all or nearly all '' policy areas , while 42 % say they agree on many , but not all issues . Though an overwhelming majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 88 % ) continue to say they have few or no areas of agreement with Trump , the share saying there are `` no or almost no '' areas of agreement has dropped from 77 % in August to 58 % today .
About half of the public ( 48 % ) says life for future generations of Americans will be worse than life today , while a quarter ( 25 % ) say it will be better and a similar share ( 26 % ) say it will be about the same . Within nearly all major demographic and political groups , more say life will be worse for future generations than say it will be better . Younger adults are somewhat more likely than older adults to say life will be better for future generations . A third of those ages 18 to 29 say this , compared with about a quarter of those ages 30 to 49 ( 24 % ) and 50 to 64 ( 23 % ) and 20 % of adults 65 and older . A third of Black Americans ( 33 % ) say life will be better for future generations , while a smaller share of white Americans ( 22 % ) say this . About a quarter of Hispanic Americans ( 26 % ) say life will be better for future generations .
More Mexicans view the United States unfavorably than at any time in the past decade and a half . Nearly two-thirds of Mexicans ( 65 % ) express a negative opinion of the U.S. , more than double the share two years ago ( 29 % ) . Mexicans ' opinions about the economic relationship with their country 's northern neighbor are also deteriorating , though less dramatically : 55 % now say economic ties between Mexico and the U.S. are good for their country , down from 70 % in 2013 . This erosion of Mexico 's goodwill toward the U.S. coincides with low approval of American President Donald Trump and one of his signature policies . An overwhelming 94 % of Mexicans oppose Trump 's proposed border wall and only 5 % have confidence in him to do the right thing regarding world affairs , Trump 's lowest rating among 37 nations polled in 2017 . President Barack Obama 's lowest rating in Mexico was 38 % , in 2011 . ( For more on America 's image around the world , see `` U.S . Image Suffers as Publics Around World Question Trump 's Leadership . '' )
In the Middle East , Saudi Arabia receives mixed marks when it comes to respecting the rights of its citizens . Only in Jordan ( 60 % ) and Egypt ( 59 % ) do clear majorities say the Saudi government protects the personal freedoms of its people . Elsewhere in the region , half or more take the opposite view . However , in countries outside the Middle East that are home to substantial or majority Muslim populations , Saudi Arabia is generally given credit for protecting the liberties of its citizens . Half or more in Pakistan ( 65 % ) , Senegal ( 63 % ) , Nigeria ( 55 % ) , and Indonesia ( 52 % ) say the Saudi regime protects personal freedoms within its borders . By contrast , opinion of Saudi Arabia 's record on civil rights is highly critical in Europe , where as many as eight-in-ten or more in Spain ( 86 % ) , Greece ( 84 % ) , and France ( 81 % ) think the Saudi government does not protect the personal freedoms of its people . In North America , 74 % of Canadians and 72 % of Americans agree , as do 71 % of Israelis .
Views about Erdogan are also correlated with religiosity . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Muslim Turks who pray five times a day assign the prime minister a positive rating . Among those who pray at least once a week but less than five times daily , views are essentially split ( 51 % good , 47 % bad ) . And among those who hardly ever pray or only do so during religious holidays , just 36 % say Erdogan is having good impact .
Four-in-ten Americans listed the campaign as the single news story they were following more closely than any other last week . The national news media , meanwhile , focused heavily on the campaign last week , devoting 52 % of its overall coverage to election news , according to Pew 's PEJ . While the public continued to pay close attention to the economy , the percent following economic news very closely ( 52 % ) was down significantly from the previous week ( 62 % ) . Roughly one-in-three ( 34 % ) listed the economy as their most closely followed news story , while more ( 40 % ) named the campaign . For the previous five weeks , the economy had been the public 's most closely followed news story . The national news media devoted 22 % of its overall coverage to the economy crisis last week . Coverage of the economy has fallen off significantly in recent weeks . The week of September 29 , when Congress was debating the financial bailout package , stories about the economic crisis accounted for 45 % of news .
There are a few issues that younger people place greater importance on than older adults . About half ( 49 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 say the U.S. should make protecting groups or nations threatened with genocide a top priority ; fewer of those 65 or older ( 36 % ) say the same . Younger people are 18 percentage points more likely than the oldest adults to say that promoting and defending human rights in other countries should be a top priority ( 41 % vs. 23 % ) . When it comes to aiding refugees fleeing violence around the world , those younger than 65 are more likely than those ages 65 and older to say this should be a top foreign policy priority for the U.S . There 's also a substantial age divide in the priority given to goals involving the U.S. military . Americans 65 and older are more than twice as likely as those under 30 to say that the U.S. maintaining its military advantage over all other countries is a top priority ( 64 % vs. 30 % ) .
Asked about the accuracy of economic coverage , 36 % say news reports present the U.S. economy `` about the way it really is . '' Close to three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say news reports make the national economy seem worse than it really is and 23 % say they make it seem better than it really is . People have greater confidence in the press 's portrayal of their state economies : 55 % say news reports portray the economy in their state about as it really is , 20 % say worse than it really is and 18 % say better .
With more than 37 million speakers , Spanish is by far the most spoken non-English language in the U.S. today among people ages 5 and older . It is also one of the fastest-growing , with the number of speakers up 233 % since 1980 , when there were 11 million Spanish speakers . ( The number of Vietnamese speakers grew faster , up 599 % over the same period ) . According to a 2011 paper by U.S. Census Bureau Demographers Jennifer Ortman and Hyon B. Shin , the number of Spanish speakers is projected to rise through 2020 to anywhere between 39 million and 43 million , depending on the assumption one makes about immigration . Most of these Spanish speakers will be Hispanic , with Ortman and Shin projecting between 37.5 million and 41 million Hispanic Spanish speakers by 2020 .
About 750,000 unauthorized immigrants held jobs in industries that produce and distribute food – food production ( 290,000 ) , food processing ( 210,000 ) , food retail ( 170,000 ) and food distribution ( 70,000 ) . During the COVID-19 outbreak , these industries , considered part of the nation 's food supply chain , are considered essential jobs . Unauthorized immigrants in these four industry groups accounted for more than 9 % of workers in these food sectors in 2017 , nearly double their share among all U.S. workers . Together , legal and unauthorized immigrants made up nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) of the nation 's nearly 8.2 million workers in food industries .
After years of generally steady increases , opinions about same-sex marriage are mostly unchanged since 2017 . Today , a majority of Americans ( 61 % ) favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , while about half as many ( 31 % ) oppose same-sex marriage . While attitudes about same-sex marriage are changed little from two years ago , support has increased substantially over the past two decades . In 2004 , opinion was almost the reverse of what it is today : 60 % opposed same-sex marriage , while just 31 % were in favor . Today , three-quarters of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents favor same-sex marriage , up from 43 % 15 years ago . By contrast , fewer than half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 44 % ) support same-sex marriage ; in 2004 , just 19 % of Republicans supported it .
With Election Day fast approaching , Americans are feeling somewhat better this year about the national economy than they were the past two election cycles — a sentiment borne out by improvements in several key indicators . But by many other measures , their collective mood has n't really improved . Fact Tank dug through the Pew Research Center survey archives to compare public sentiment about the economy and elected leaders today with the same metrics at comparable periods before the federal elections of 2012 and 2010 . Here 's a rundown of what we learned :
In February , when Gallup asked Americans how important various foreign-policy goals should be , 52 % rated promoting and defending human rights in other countries as `` very important . '' Out of nine goals Gallup asked about , it ranked third from the bottom , ahead of `` helping other countries build democracies '' and `` promoting economic development in other countries '' ( 31 % each ) . By far the strongest support — above 80 % in each case — was given to goals related to U.S. national security and securing adequate energy supplies for the country .
The surveys , which were completed before the multilateral agreement aimed at freezing Iran 's nuclear development program , find that most Americans do not believe that Iranian leaders are serious about addressing concerns over its nuclear program . Among those who heard at least a little about the nuclear talks , just 33 % say they think Iranian leaders are serious about addressing international concerns about the country 's nuclear enrichment program , while 60 % say they are not . Among the public , there are partisan differences over whether Iranian leaders are serious about addressing concerns over the country 's nuclear program . Majorities of Republicans ( 73 % ) and independents ( 62 % ) who have heard at least a little about the nuclear talks say Iranian leaders are not serious in addressing nuclear concerns . Democrats who have heard about this issue offer more mixed evaluations ; 42 % say Iranian leaders are serious and 48 % say they are not .
Internet users in their twenties are more likely than those in their fifties and sixties to have traveled far and wide online , trying new things and possibly learning hard lessons about the dangers that lurk on the network . In a survey focused on the impact of software intrusions on the internet , the Pew Internet Project found that younger internet users are more likely than older users to say they have spyware on their home computers ( 45 % of internet users ages 18 - 28 report having spyware , compared to 27 % of internet users ages 51 - 59 ) . With the exception of reading user agreements more carefully , internet users between 18 and 28 years old are also more likely than those in their fifties to make changes in their online behavior to avoid getting unwanted software programs on their computer .
Pew Research Center estimates that 8 % of all working , residential cellphones in the U.S. are erroneously flagged inactive , which is several points higher than a previous study reported .3 Taken together with the fact that 91 % of U.S. adults own a cellphone , the result is a 7-percentage-point reduction in sample coverage of U.S. adults . For a national cellphone sample , this reduces the estimated net coverage rate of U.S. adults from about 91 % to 83 % . These net rates are based on estimates from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 's January to June 2015 National Health Interview Survey that 3 % of adults have no telephone and another 6 % have a landline but no cellphone . For national RDD surveys of adults , the inclusion of a landline sample substantially mitigates the reduction in coverage from excluding flagged-inactive numbers ( from 97 % coverage to 93 % , rather than 83 % ) . While excluding flagged-inactive cellphones reduces the survey coverage rate and disproportionately excludes hard-to-reach demographic groups , it does not appear to have a meaningful effect on bias , at least for public opinion surveys . Adults with cellphones erroneously flagged as inactive do differ systematically on several dimensions from those with flagged-active cellphones , as described above , but they constitute too small a fraction of the population to meaningfully move estimates . In the survey , 2 % of all cellphone sample interviews and 1 % of the combined ( cellphone plus landline ) sample interviews were with adults reached on numbers erroneously flagged as inactive using the activity flag .
NATO recommends that member countries commit 2 % of their gross domestic product to defense expenditures . Yet just four out of 28 member countries meet this threshold . The U.S. dedicates the greatest share of its GDP to defense spending ( 3.57 % ) , followed by Greece ( 2.36 % ) , the UK ( 2.12 % ) and Estonia ( 2.08 % ) . At the other end of the spectrum , Slovenia , Spain , Belgium and Luxembourg all dedicate less than 1 % of their GDP to defense .
Of the party 's best-known possible candidates , only Mitt Romney has broad potential appeal . Large majorities have heard of four possible Republican candidates – Romney , Sarah Palin , Newt Gingrich and Ron Paul . But most who have heard of Palin and Gingrich say there is no chance they would vote for them ( 63 % each ) . About as many ( 60 % ) say there is no chance they would support Paul .
The number of migrants coming to the United States each year , legally and illegally , grew very rapidly starting in the mid-1990s , hit a peak at the end of the decade , and then declined substantially after 2001 . By 2004 , the annual inflow of foreign-born persons was down 24 % from its all-time high in 2000 , according to the Pew Hispanic Center analysis of multiple datasets collected by the Census Bureau and other government agencies . Rather than undergoing a continuous increase in immigrant levels as is commonly perceived , the United States experienced a sharp spike in immigration flows over the past decade that had a distinct beginning , middle and end . From the early 1990s through the middle of the decade , slightly more than 1.1 million migrants came to the United States every year on average . In the peak years of 1999 and 2000 , the annual inflow was about 35 % higher , topping 1.5 million . By 2002 and 2003 , the number coming to the country was back around the 1.1 million mark . This basic pattern of increase , peak and decline is evident for the foreign-born from every region of the world and for both legal and unauthorized migrants . In 2004 , migration bounced back to exceed 1.2 million . Whether or not this move portends further increases is impossible to predict . But even with this recent increase in migration , the most recent data show that immigration flows are at levels comparable with those of the mid-1990s and still significantly below the peak levels of 1999–2000 .
We keep close watch on Census Bureau projections , and we discovered an interesting nugget : The Baby Boomers are losing one of their best-known claims to fame – being the largest American generation – to the Millennials . Note : Item No . 10 in this post was updated on April 20 , 2018 , to reflect the Center 's revised definition of the Millennial generation and the updated year in which Millennials will be the largest generation .
The most socially acceptable way to break up with someone is by having an in-person conversation , and these conversations are the most common way that breakups occur in a `` real-world '' setting . While most teens rate an in-person talk as the most acceptable way to break up with someone , some 62 % of teens with relationship experience have broken up with someone in person , and 47 % have been broken up with through an in-person discussion .
Japanese atonement for its activities in China before and during World War II is an ongoing source of friction in Sino-Japanese relations . The Japanese believe they have expressed regret for their behavior , while the Chinese disagree . Among the Japanese people , 53 % say they have apologized enough for their country 's military actions during the 1930s and 1940s . Such sentiment is up from 40 % in 2006 . Over that time period , the proportion of the public that believes Japan has not apologized sufficiently has fallen by 21 percentage points , from 44 % to 23 % . Notably , one-in-six Japanese ( 17 % ) say no apology is necessary .
Americans and Russians strongly disagree over whether the U.S. takes into account other countries ' interests when it makes foreign policy . A majority of Americans ( 57 % ) say Washington does consider other nations , but nearly two-thirds of Russians ( 65 % ) say it does not . This sentiment in Russia has been consistent since the question was first posed in 2002 . Similarly , most Americans since then have also said the U.S. listens to other countries when making foreign policy . In 2002 , however , 75 % of Americans said this was the case , compared with 57 % seen today .
Strengthening the economy has been among the public 's leading policy goals since the Pew Research Center began asking the question in 2000 . The share citing the economy as a top priority increased during the recession , before declining over the past two years . The decline in the importance of improving the job situation has been particularly striking among those with higher incomes . In 2013 , 78 % of those with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more said that improving the job situation was a top priority for the president and Congress . Nearly identical shares of those with lower incomes also viewed this as a top goal : 76 % of those with family incomes of $ 30,000- $ 75,000 and 79 % among household earning less than $ 30,000 . Since then , jobs have fallen 21 points as a top priority among those with incomes of at least $ 75,000 ( 57 % ) , and 9 points among those with incomes of $ 30,000 to $ 75,000 ( 67 % ) .
In what may seem like stereotypes come to life , a new Pew Research Center study on political polarization finds that conservatives would rather live in large houses in small towns and rural areas — ideally among people of the same religious faith — while liberals opt for smaller houses and walkable communities in cities , preferably with a mix of different races and ethnicities . And sizable minorities of both groups say they 'd be dismayed if someone from the `` other side '' were to marry into their family . And when given the choice , three-quarters of consistent conservatives say they 'd prefer to live in a community of larger houses with more space between them , even if that means having to drive to shops , restaurants and other amenities . Consistent liberals were almost exactly the opposite : 77 % said they prefer denser communities where amenities were in walking distance , even if that meant living in smaller houses . ( Speaking of amenities , 73 % of consistent liberals said being near art museums and theaters was important , versus just 23 % of consistent conservatives . )
In other news last week , the public continued to follow news about the U.S. economy closely . Fully 46 % paid very close attention to reports about the condition of the economy and 29 % listed this as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . The national news media devoted 6 % of its overall coverage to the economy . The media focused much more heavily on the presidential election than on the economy : 38 % of the national newshole was devoted to the campaign . Barack Obama 's trip did not boost overall interest in the campaign . Three-in-ten Americans followed campaign news very closely last week , unchanged from the previous two weeks . One-in-four ( 24 % ) listed the campaign as their most closely followed news story of the week . Roughly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) paid very close attention to news about the war in Iraq , 11 % listed this as their most closely followed story . News about Hurricane Dolly , which hit the South Texas coastline last week , was followed very closely by 19 % of the public . The news media devoted 5 % of its overall coverage to the hurricane .
Overall , the public 's current ratings for government performance are more positive than negative on five of 12 issues , including keeping the country safe from terrorism , setting fair standards for workplaces and responding to natural disasters . The government 's ratings on four issues – poverty , immigration , health care and the environment – are , on balance , negative . On three other issues , the public 's views are more mixed . On alleviating poverty and managing immigration , in particular , sizable proportions ( 42 % and 38 % , respectively ) say the government does a very bad job . By comparison , just 6 % say the government does a very good job in helping people out of poverty and 7 % say it does very well in managing the immigration system .
Across seven Asia-Pacific nations surveyed , a median of 62 % see ISIS as a major threat and 61 % see global climate change in the same light . About half across the region see cyberattacks and Chinese power as a major challenge . Fewer are very concerned about the global economy , refugees or American and Russian power .
Another long-running testing effort is the National Assessment of Educational Progress , a project of the federal Education Department . In the most recent NAEP results , from 2015 , average math scores for fourth- and eighth-graders fell for the first time since 1990 . A team from Rutgers University is analyzing the NAEP data to try to identify the reasons for the drop in math scores . Looked at another way , the 2015 NAEP rated 40 % of fourth-graders , 33 % of eighth-graders and 25 % of 12th-graders as `` proficient '' or `` advanced '' in math . While far fewer fourth- and eighth-graders now rate at `` below basic , '' the lowest performance level ( 18 % and 29 % , respectively , versus 50 % and 48 % in 1990 ) , improvement in the top levels appears to have stalled out . ( Among 12th-graders , 38 % scored at the lowest performance level in math , a point lower than in 2005 . ) NAEP also tests U.S. students on science , though not as regularly , and the limited results available indicate some improvement . Between 2009 and 2015 , the average scores of both fourth- and eight-graders improved from 150 to 154 ( on a 0-to-300 scale ) , although for 12th-graders the average score remained at 150 . In 2015 , 38 % of fourth-graders , 34 % of eighth-graders and 22 % of 12th-graders were rated proficient or better in science ; 24 % of fourth-graders , 32 % of eighth-graders and 40 % of 12th-graders were rated `` below basic . ''
Americans are divided over fact-checking efforts by news outlets and other organizations . Half of U.S. adults said in an early 2019 survey that fact-checking efforts by these organizations deal fairly with all sides , while 48 % said they tend to favor one side . Partisans were sharply divided in their views : Around seven-in-ten Democrats ( 69 % ) said fact checkers deal fairly with all sides , while roughly the same share of Republicans ( 70 % ) said they tend to favor one side .
The public 's views of torture against suspected terrorists have remained generally stable over the past decade . One-in-five ( 20 % ) say the use of torture against suspected terrorists can often be justified to gain important information . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say it can sometimes be justified , 20 % think it can rarely be justified , and 27 % say it can never be justified .
Americans , by a 52 % to 42 % margin , think their taxes are too high , according to a new Gallup poll . Those saying taxes are too high have hovered around that percentage for more than a decade . But prior to 2003 — before the tax cuts passed during the Bush administration — 69 % had said the federal bite out of their incomes was too big .
There is a widespread perception among Muslims that conflict between Sunnis and Shia is not limited to Iraq 's borders . In nine nations , Muslim respondents were asked whether the tensions between Sunnis and Shia are limited to Iraq or are a growing problem in the Muslim world more generally , and in seven of those nations , a majority of Muslims say it is a broader problem . This is a rare point of agreement among Muslims in Lebanon , a country that has experienced considerable sectarian conflict for decades . Overall , 95 % of Lebanese Muslims Sunni-Shia tensions are a broad problem in the Muslim world , including 99 % of Sunnis and 91 % of Shia . Most Pakistani , Egyptian , Jordanian and Nigerian Muslims also see a general problem that is not limited to Iraq . Israel 's Muslim minority community is roughly divided on this question — 42 % say it is a more general problem , while 38 % feel it is limited to Iraq . Indonesia is the outlier on this question — 25 % of Indonesian Muslims say Sunni-Shia tensions are a general problem , while almost half ( 47 % ) think it is essentially a problem for Iraq ( 28 % offer no opinion ) .
The public overwhelmingly sees the issue of sexual assault and harassment as very important for the country . About three-quarters of the public ( 74 % ) say it is `` very important '' for the country . Among five current issues tested , only proposed changes to the federal tax system rank as important as sexual assault and harassment in the public 's view . Democrats and Democratic leaners are 20 percentage points more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to view the issue of sexual assault and harassment as very important . Nevertheless , nearly nine-in-ten Republicans ( 87 % ) say it is at least somewhat important . Very few Republicans or Democrats regard this issue as not important . More women than men say the issue of sexual assault and harassment is very important . And adults younger than 30 are more likely to view this issue as very important than are people 50 and older .
Most Americans ( 86 % ) correctly identify the Earth 's inner layer , the core , as its hottest part , and nearly as many ( 82 % ) know uranium is needed to make nuclear energy and nuclear weapons . But far fewer are able to identify the property of a sound wave that determines loudness . Just 35 % correctly answer amplitude , or height . Some 33 % incorrectly say it is frequency and 23 % say it is wavelength . And just 34 % correctly state that water boils at a lower temperature in a high-altitude setting ( Denver ) than near sea level ( Los Angeles ) .
For the public , the economic crisis and the president 's budget proposal were the dominant stories of the week . Amid reports about a projected $ 1.75 trillion federal budget deficit and a grim week on Wall Street , 56 % of Americans say they paid very close attention to news about the economy , and 34 % say it was the news they followed most closely .
Americans differ over the role and value of scientific experts in policy matters . While confidence in scientists overall tilts positive , people 's perspectives about the role and value of scientific experts on policy issues tends to vary . Six-in-ten U.S. adults believe that scientists should take an active role in policy debates about scientific issues , while about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say , instead , that scientists should focus on establishing sound scientific facts and stay out of such debates . More than four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 45 % ) say that scientific experts usually make better policy decisions than other people , while a similar share ( 48 % ) says such decisions are neither better nor worse than other people 's and 7 % say scientific experts ' decisions are usually worse than other people 's . Here , too , Democrats tend to hold scientific experts in higher esteem than do Republicans : 54 % of Democrats say scientists ' policy decisions are usually better than those of other people , while two-thirds of Republicans ( 66 % ) say that scientists ' decisions are either no different from or worse than other people 's .
Two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Americans say that European companies building factories in the United States will mostly help the U.S. economy . Men ( 71 % ) more than women ( 62 % ) support such greenfield investment . And , there is strong support for it among Americans with at least a college degree ( 84 % ) . A smaller proportion of Germans , roughly half ( 49 % ) , express the view that American firms building plants in Germany will benefit the local economy . Men ( 55 % ) are more supportive than women ( 43 % ) , as are Germans age 18 to 29 ( 55 % ) compared with people 50 years of age and older ( 44 % ) . German ambivalence about such new U.S. investment may stem from a distrust of American business practices . A 2012 Pew Research Center survey found that nearly two-thirds of Germans ( 65 % ) disliked American ways of doing business .
The nation 's unauthorized immigrant population grew rapidly between 1990 and 2007 , reaching a peak of 12.2 million . Since then , the population declined to 10.5 million in 2017 . Unauthorized immigrants from Mexico make up less than half of all unauthorized immigrants and have been a driver of the group 's population decline – the number of unauthorized immigrants from Mexico fell from a peak of 6.9 million in 2007 to 4.9 million in 2017 .
The public is wary of computer algorithms being used to make decisions with real-world consequences . The public expresses widespread concern about companies and other institutions using computer algorithms in situations with potential impacts on people 's lives . More than half ( 56 % ) of U.S. adults think it is unacceptable to use automated criminal risk scores when evaluating people who are up for parole . And 68 % think it is unacceptable for companies to collect large quantities of data about individuals for the purposes of offering them deals or other financial incentives . When asked to elaborate about their worries , many feel that these programs violate people 's privacy , are unfair , or simply will not work as well as decisions made by humans .
Similarly , 86 % of those who expressed confidence in election systems across the country in October say they are confident these systems were secure . Among the 54 % who were not confident in national election systems before the midterm elections , about half ( 51 % ) now say they are confident that election systems in the United States were secure from hacking and other technological threats , while 49 % continue to express little confidence in election security around the country .
The United States , long a champion of closer commercial links among countries , is seeing much of the world not only sharing its enthusiasm but exceeding it . In fact , of the 24 nations surveyed in 2008 , Americans were dead last in calling the growing multi-national trade and business ties either `` very good '' or `` somewhat good . '' A 53 % majority of Americans gave thumbs up to international commerce , but that support paled in comparison with the 91 % of Nigerians and 90 % of Indians at the top of the list . In general , the Asian nations that have been running huge trade surpluses thought international commerce was just fine . Majorities of 88 % in South Korea and 87 % in China approved of growing trade and business ties across borders .
As President Obama and Democratic leaders mounted what was characterized as the final push to pass health care reform legislation last week , the public followed the health care debate more closely than any other major story ( 33 % say they followed this story most closely ) . The debate also topped media coverage .
News about health care reform ran a close second to news about swine flu in terms of public interest . About a third ( 32 % ) followed health care reform news very closely , while 22 % say this was their top story of the week . According to PEJ , health care reform topped the news media 's agenda , accounting for 16 % of the newshole .
The current survey marks the first time the Pew Research Center has assessed levels of sympathy for Israel and the Palestinians independently . The Pew Research has long tracked a different question which asks respondents which side they sympathize with more in the dispute between Israel and the Palestinians . In this `` forced-choice '' question ( last asked by Pew Research in July ) , 51 % say they sympathize more with Israel while just 14 % sympathize more with the Palestinians . That question does not offer explicit options for expressing sympathy for both sides , or neither side . In the July survey , 3 % volunteered that they sympathized with both Israel and the Palestinians , while 15 % volunteered that they sympathized with neither side .
Independents who do not lean to a party are most likely to have an unfavorable opinion of both parties ( 37 % ) . Another 22 % have favorable opinions of both parties . Just 11 % of independents who do not lean to a party view the Democratic Party favorably , while about as many ( 9 % ) have a favorable view of the GOP .
Although there is a pervasive gloominess about the state of the economy throughout much of the world , Africans are relatively positive about their short- and long-term economic future . Across the nine African nations polled , a median of 60 % say they expect their country 's economy to improve over the next 12 months , the highest of any region . A median of 56 % believe children in their country today will be financially better off than their parents , and about seven-in-ten or more hold this view in Nigeria , Ethiopia and Burkina Faso .
Across the countries surveyed , fewer than half say they approve of the way the EU is handling European economic issues ( median of 40 % ) , Brexit ( median of 38 % ) and the refugee issue ( median of 23 % ) . Ratings of the EU 's performance , however , vary widely from country to country .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Aug. 11 - 17 in English and Spanish among 2,010 adults reached on landlines and cell phones , finds that 51 % now approve of Obama 's job performance while 37 % disapprove . While that is largely unchanged from July ( 54 % ) , it is down 10 points from June ( 61 % ) .
That was not the case , however , when Americans first entered the fighting . In August 1965 , asked by Gallup whether `` in view of the developments since we entered the fighting in Vietnam '' was the decision to send troops a mistake , fully 60 % said no , while only 24 % said yes . As late as January 1967 , the public still weighed in on the side of no mistake ( 32 % yes , 52 % no ) . A year later , as U.S. casualties mounted , the public was beginning to have serious second thoughts with 46 % calling our involvement a mistake , although a nearly equal 42 % still did n't think so .
Young voters are significantly less engaged in this year 's election than at a comparable point in 2008 and now lag far behind older voters in interest in the campaign and intention to vote . The share of voters younger than 30 who are following campaign news very closely is roughly half what it was at this point four years ago ( 18 % , down from 35 % ) . Just 63 % of young registered voters say they definitely plan to vote this year , down from 72 % four years ago .
Overall , most Americans say either that the U.S. `` stands above all other countries '' ( 24 % ) or that it is `` one of the greatest countries , along with some others '' ( 55 % ) . About one-in-five ( 21 % ) say `` there are other countries that are better than the U.S . ''
Regardless of whether they hope to see a female president , a majority of Americans ( 68 % ) say they expect there to be one in their lifetime . That number is down slightly since 2014 , when 73 % of the public said they thought the U.S. would elect a female president in their lifetime . Still , the share who say they think this is likely to happen is higher than in 1996 , when the question was first asked . At that time , only about half of Americans ( 54 % ) said they thought they would see a woman as president in their lifetime .
The U.S. incarceration rate fell in 2016 to its lowest level in 20 years , according to new data from the Bureau of Justice Statistics ( BJS ) , the statistical arm of the Department of Justice . Despite the decline , the United States incarcerates a larger share of its population than any other country . At the end of 2016 , there were about 2.2 million people behind bars in the U.S. , including 1.5 million under the jurisdiction of federal and state prisons and roughly 741,000 in the custody of locally run jails . That amounts to a nationwide incarceration rate of 860 prison or jail inmates for every 100,000 adults ages 18 and older . The nation 's incarceration rate peaked at 1,000 inmates per 100,000 adults during the three-year period between 2006 and 2008 . It has declined every year since then and is now at its lowest point since 1996 , when there were 830 inmates per 100,000 adults .
The U.S. is the only country surveyed where a majority expresses positive views of Israel : 57 % of Americans have a favorable opinion and 27 % have an unfavorable view of one of their country 's closest allies in the Middle East . Russians also express more favorable than unfavorable views of Israel ( 46 % vs. 38 % ) . In predominantly Muslim countries , as well as in France , Germany , Britain and China , majorities or pluralities express negative opinions in Israel . At least eight-in-ten in Lebanon ( 99 % ) , Jordan ( 96 % ) , the Palestinian territories ( 94 % ) , Egypt ( 92 % ) , Turkey ( 86 % ) , and Tunisia ( 86 % ) offer unfavorable views . Majorities in China ( 66 % ) , France ( 65 % ) and Germany ( 62 % ) also express negative opinions of Israel , as does a 44 % -plurality in Britain .
The share of Americans who use ride-hailing services has increased dramatically . Today , 36 % of U.S. adults say they have ever used a ride-hailing service such as Uber or Lyft , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2018 . By comparison , just 15 % of Americans said they had used these services in late 2015 , and one-third had never heard of ride-hailing before .
College grads say college is worth it : About nine-in-ten college grads in every generation say college has been , or will be , worth the investment . Despite a steep rise in college tuitions , Millennials agree .
Two years ago , the Census Bureau announced the nation had reached a new demographic tipping point : The share of U.S. babies who were a racial or ethnic minority had edged past the 50 % mark for the first time . The finding was widely covered as a dramatic illustration of the agency 's projections that the U.S. will become a majority-minority nation within three decades . But that tipping point may not have arrived yet , according to preliminary 2013 birth data released last week by the National Center for Health Statistics . The center 's numbers indicate that non-Hispanic white mothers still account for 54 % of births—as they had in 2012 and 2011 . The Census Bureau 's initial announcement was that members of minority groups—defined as anyone who is not non-Hispanic white—accounted for 50.4 % of the U.S. population younger than age 1 on July 1 , 2011 . The bureau 's annual population estimates for July 1 , 2012 , placed the minority share at 50.1 % . The agency 's annual population estimate for July 1 , 2013 , is to be released June 26 . In recent decades , non-Hispanic whites have been a shrinking share of newborns in data produced by both agencies . To some extent , the data discrepancy between them reflects differences in what each agency measures : The Census Bureau classifies the children based on the race and Hispanic origin of both parents , while the National Center for Health Statistics reports only the mother 's race . The two agencies also use somewhat different methods to categorize race . But the bottom line is that people who want to know whether a new era in the nursery has arrived may be scratching their heads wondering which interpretation is correct .
Several major American sports leagues have yet to feature an active , openly gay male player , and LGBT Americans have negative feelings toward pro sports leagues in general . A Pew Research survey of LGBT adults conducted last year in the U.S. found that just 4 % saw pro sports leagues as friendly toward LGBT people , while a majority ( 59 % ) saw the leagues as unfriendly and 36 % saw them as neutral .
The top sites among today 's teens include YouTube ( 85 % ) , Instagram ( 72 % ) and Snapchat ( 69 % ) . In the 2014 - 2015 survey , Facebook was the only platform used by a clear majority of teens .
America 's love affair with the car is well-documented , but many U.S. adults also rely on a bus , train or subway to get around . One-in-ten Americans ( 11 % ) say they take public transportation on a daily or weekly basis , according to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted in late 2015 , but who is taking public transit varies substantially by region , nativity , and race and ethnicity . The Northeast , home to several of the most traveled transit systems in the country , has the largest share of adults by region ( 25 % ) who use public transportation on a regular basis ( daily or weekly ) . City dwellers are also more frequent users of mass transit . Some 21 % of urban residents use public transit on a regular basis , compared with 6 % of suburban residents and just 3 % of rural residents . Americans who are lower-income , black or Hispanic , immigrants or under 50 are especially likely to use public transportation on a regular basis , Pew Research Center data show . While there are few racial and ethnic differences in public transit use among non-urban residents , there are substantial differences when looking at only those living in urban areas . Among urban residents , 34 % of blacks and 27 % of Hispanics report taking public transit daily or weekly , compared with only 14 % of whites . Foreign-born urban residents are more likely than urban dwellers born in the U.S. to regularly use public transportation ( 38 % vs. 18 % ) .
In general , public support for the death penalty has tracked rates of violent crime , as calculated by the FBI . ( The FBI has long compiled and reported uniform crime statistics , although not all local law enforcement agencies participate and some people have challenged the way they classify and report crimes . ) The agency defines violent crimes as murder , non-negligent manslaughter , forcible rape , robbery and aggravated assault .
Overall , 19 % of the public paid very close attention to news about the fired U.S. attorneys and 8 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . The news media devoted 16 % of its coverage overall to the firings – an eight-fold increase over the week of March 5 – making it the most covered story of the week . Public interest increased as well though at a lower rate . Democrats followed the U.S. attorneys story more closely than Republicans ( 23 % vs. 15 % , respectively , followed it very closely ) .This story did generate more public interest than the recent verdict in the Scooter Libby trial – one of last week 's most covered news stories . Only 13 % followed that story very closely . While the news media focused on how Gonzales and the White House were connected to the U.S. attorney firings , the public remained intensely focused on the Iraq War . Fully 34 % said they followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely and 23 % listed Iraq as the story they followed most closely last week . Nearly as many ( 31 % ) followed news about conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and more general stories about problems with medical care for wounded soldiers returning from Iraq . Some 17 % said this was the story they followed most closely . Coverage of this story fell off somewhat from the previous week— 4 % of coverage in all media sectors was devoted to this story last week vs. 6 % the week of March 5 . In other top stories this week , the steady stream of news about the 2008 presidential campaign continued . Nine percent of news coverage in all sectors was devoted to this topic . For the past two months , media coverage of the campaign has focused largely on the two leading Democratic candidates , Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama . That fact has not been lost on the public , as these two campaigns are at the forefront of the public 's mind . When asked to name the candidate they 've heard the most about in the news lately , 37 % named Clinton and another 24 % named Barack Obama . Mentions of all other candidates were in single digits : 3 % or fewer named John McCain , Rudy Giuliani , Mitt Romney and John Edwards . Recent news about the stock market attracted a modest audience – 18 % of the public followed this story very closely while 8 % said it was the story they followed most closely . Two weeks earlier , when stocks took a dramatic tumble , the public was following the market somewhat more closely . Stock market happenings drew in a distinct audience – Republicans and men were among the most likely to pay close attention to this story . In addition , the income gap on this story is substantial . Fully 57 % of those with annual household incomes of $ 75,000 or higher followed news about the stock market very or fairly closely . This compares with 40 % of those making between $ 50,000 and $ 75,000 , and fewer than 30 % of those making less than $ 50,000 a year .
As you might have guessed , the restaurant and food service industry is the single biggest employer of near-minimum workers . Last year , according to our analysis , that industry employed 3.75 million near-minimum workers , about 18 % of the total . Many of those workers , presumably , are tipped , so their actual gross pay may be above $ 10.10 an hour . ( Federal law , as well as wage laws in many states , allow tipped employees to be paid less as long as `` tip credits '' bring their pay up to at least the applicable minimum . ) However , other industries are even more reliant on near-minimum-wage workers . Based on our estimates , industries where more than three-quarters of the hourly workers make more than minimum but less than $ 10.10 an hour include scrapyards , video-rental stores ( the few remaining ) , mail-order houses , makers of mobile homes and other prefabricated buildings , and car washes .
America 's edge over Russia in terms of global popularity has shrunk . While Russia was still viewed far less favorably than either the U.S. or China last year , a sharp decline in America 's favorability improved Russia 's standing relative to the U.S . Overall , a median of 50 % across the 33 nations surveyed had a positive image of the U.S. in 2017 versus 35 % who viewed Russia favorably . In previous years , 64 % across these same nations had a favorable view of the U.S. compared with a median of 28 % favorability for Russia .
About three-in-ten Americans ( 31 % ) say they heard a lot last week about the defunct satellite that scientists expected to crash into the earth this past weekend . Another 40 % say they heard a little about this . Nearly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) heard nothing at all about the satellite , which broke up and crashed into the South Pacific . About as many ( 29 % ) say they heard a lot about the bankrupt solar panel company that received millions of dollars in loans approved by the Obama administration . Republicans are much more likely to have heard a lot about this story ( 42 % ) than are Democrats ( 20 % ) . Three-in-ten independents ( 30 % ) heard a lot about this story . Among Republicans and GOP-leaners who agree with the Tea Party , 60 % say they heard a lot about this story . Perry 's criticism of the Obama administration 's approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict also drew media attention last week . Nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) say they heard a lot about this , while 42 % say they heard a little . About a third ( 35 % ) say they heard nothing at all about this . On this question , partisan differences are not significant . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they heard a lot about the latest moves by the Federal Reserve to help the economy . Another 44 % say they heard a little about the Fed moving to keep long-term interest rates low . About a third ( 34 % ) heard nothing at all . Partisans are about equally likely to have heard a lot about this story .
Americans are less accepting of other practices . For example , open relationships – that is , committed relationships where both people agree that it is acceptable to date or have sex with other people – are viewed as never or rarely acceptable by most Americans . About half of adults ( 48 % ) say having an open relationship is never acceptable , 20 % say it 's rarely acceptable and 32 % say it 's sometimes or always acceptable .
Stay-at-home moms are poorer , less educated than working moms : Stay-at-home mothers are younger , poorer and less educated than their working counterparts . For example , 34 % of stay-at-home mothers are poor , compared with 12 % of working mothers . They are also less likely to be white and more likely to be immigrants .
There is also wide disagreement on how much discrimination contributes to racial and ethnic disparities in the field . Among those in STEM jobs , 72 % of blacks say a major reason blacks and Hispanics are underrepresented in these jobs is that they face discrimination in recruiting , hiring and promotions . That compares with 43 % of Hispanics and around a quarter of whites and Asians ( 27 % and 28 % , respectively ) .
At its most extreme , the homework gap can mean that teens have trouble even finishing their homework . Overall , 17 % of teens say they are often or sometimes unable to complete homework assignments because they do not have reliable access to a computer or internet connection . Other times , teens who lack reliable internet service at home say they seek out other locations to complete their schoolwork : 12 % of teens say they at least sometimes use public Wi-Fi to complete assignments because they do not have an internet connection at home . Again , this problem is more prevalent for black or less affluent teens . Roughly one-in-five black teens ( 21 % ) report having to at least sometimes use public Wi-Fi for this reason , including 10 % who say they often do so . And teens whose family income is below $ 30,000 a year are far more likely than those whose annual household income is $ 30,000 or higher to say that they do this ( 21 % vs. 9 % ) .
As noted in October , there has been an increase in the share of Americans expressing consistently liberal or mostly liberal views , while the share holding a mix of liberal and conservative views has declined .
Youth is a defining characteristic of the U.S. Latino population . About six-in-ten Latinos ( 61 % ) in the U.S. were 35 or younger in 2016 . The number of young Latinos –35 million – increased 20 % from a decade earlier , making it one of the largest and fastest-growing youth populations in the country . With a median age of 28 , Latinos are also the nation 's youngest major racial or ethnic group . Here are some key facts about them :
One metric – the number of new immigrants arriving in the U.S. each year – illustrates dramatically how immigration trends from Mexico and the three Central American nations , known collectively as the `` Northern Triangle , '' have diverged in recent years . According to U.S. Census Bureau data analyzed by Pew Research Center , about 115,000 new immigrants arrived from the Northern Triangle in 2014 , double the 60,000 who entered the U.S. three years earlier . Meanwhile , the number of new arrivals from Mexico declined slightly from 175,000 in 2011 to 165,000 in 2014 .
The number of Hispanic registered voters in Florida has increased 6.2 % since the 2016 presidential election , to a record 2.1 million people . This is slightly faster growth than during the 2014 and 2010 midterm cycles , which saw 4.6 % and 5.2 % increases over the prior presidential election year , respectively , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Florida state government data .
About half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) say foods containing genetically modified ( GM ) ingredients are worse for one 's health than foods containing no GM ingredients , while a slightly smaller share ( 44 % ) thinks foods with GM ingredients are neither better nor worse for one 's health . Only 5 % say GM foods are better for one 's health .
Who comprises the ranks of these health-oriented eaters ? They are more likely to be Baby Boomers than Millennials . Some 56 % of those in the Baby Boomer or older generations say they pick foods because they are healthy and nutritious at least more than half of the time , compared with 43 % of Millennials .
India and China , the world 's two most populous countries , have long had a competitive relationship and have emerged as major economic powers . But in the digital space , China has a clear advantage . Since Pew Research Center began tracking advanced technology adoption in the two countries in 2013 , the Chinese have consistently reported rates of internet and smartphone use that are at least triple that of Indians . That trend has continued through 2016 . In our latest poll , 71 % of Chinese say they use the internet at least occasionally or own a smartphone , our definition of internet users . In contrast , only 21 % of Indians say they use the internet or own a smartphone . The gap between China and India is similarly large when it comes to smartphone ownership alone . Nearly seven-in-ten Chinese ( 68 % ) say they own one as of spring 2016 , compared with 18 % of Indians . Reported smartphone ownership in China has jumped 31 percentage points since 2013 , but only 6 points in India over the same time period . And while virtually every Chinese person surveyed owns at least a basic mobile phone ( 98 % ) , only 72 % of Indians can say the same .
In addition , while the budget deficit remains a very important issue for most voters , there continues to be broad agreement that the best way to reduce the budget deficit is with a combination of tax increases and cuts in major programs . In the new survey , fully 69 % of registered voters say the best way to reduce the federal budget deficit is with a combination of tax increases and spending cuts ; just 16 % say the focus should be mostly on cutting major programs and just 6 % say the deficit should be reduced mostly by increasing taxes .
Although only a third of the public followed campaign news very closely last week , an overwhelming majority ( 79 % ) knew that Hillary Clinton had won the Pennsylvania Democratic primary . This is much higher than the percentage that knew Clinton had won most of the March 4th primaries , which included Ohio and Texas ( 55 % ) . It also exceeds the percentage who knew about her widely publicized win in the New Hampshire primary ( 67 % ) .
Two years into his tenure , Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi continues to ride a wave of public good feeling about the way things are going in India , the state of the domestic economy and his own stewardship of the country .
The Obama administration deported 333,341 unauthorized immigrants in the 2015 fiscal year , a decline of about 81,000 ( or 20 % ) from the prior year , according to newly released data from the Department of Homeland Security . The number of deportations fell for the second year in a row and reached its lowest level since 2007 , during the George W. Bush administration . The decline in deportations occurred among non-criminal and criminal immigrants alike . Deportations of immigrants without a criminal conviction fell from 247,000 in 2014 to 193,000 in 2015 , a 22 % drop and the first in four years . Deportations of immigrants with a criminal conviction fell 17 % between fiscal 2014 and 2015 , from 168,000 to 140,000 . It is only the third time that the number of deportations of immigrants with a criminal conviction has fallen since at least 1981 . ( Fiscal 2016 data are not yet available . )
NATO nations are hesitant , however , to escalate their involvement in the conflict , especially militarily . Comparatively few support sending arms to Ukraine ( median of 41 % ) . And many allied countries are reluctant to uphold Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty , which requires NATO members to defend an ally with armed force if necessary . A median of 48 % among these publics say their country should use military force if Russia gets into a serious military conflict with a neighboring nation that is a NATO ally , while 42 % are opposed . Americans and Canadians are the only publics where more than half think their country should use military action if Russia attacks a fellow NATO member ( 56 % and 53 % , respectively ) . Germans ( 58 % ) are the most likely to say their country should not . All NATO member publics are more likely to think the United States will come to an ally 's defense ( median of 68 % ) than to be willing to do so themselves .
The public increasingly sees Barack Obama 's policies as having an impact on economic conditions and , for the first time , slightly more say the impact has been negative rather than positive . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say Obama 's economic policies since taking office have made economic conditions worse ; 23 % say his policies have made conditions better . Nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they have had no effect so far or volunteer that it is too soon to tell , according to the latest Pew Research/National Journal Congressional Connection Poll , sponsored by SHRM . The survey was conducted June 3 - 6 among 1,002 adults . Opinions about the impact of Obama 's economic policies have changed little since February . But the proportion saying that Obama 's economic policies have made economic conditions worse has nearly doubled – from 16 % to 29 % – since June 2009 . Over this period , the percentage saying his policies have improved conditions has changed little , while the number saying Obama 's policies have had no effect or that it is too soon to tell has fallen from 53 % to 38 % .
This discontinuity between American views of globalization and the sentiments of most people around the world is also evident in public perspectives on the impact of trade . In developing economies , a median of 66 % say trade increases jobs and 55 % say it grows wages . In emerging markets , 52 % say global business ties create jobs and 45 % hold the view that it improves wages . Americans , on the other hand , are among the least likely to say trade creates jobs ( 20 % ) or improves wages ( 17 % ) , exhibiting notably less faith in the benefits of trade than others in advanced economies .
Support for government funding for alternative energy research has fallen since 2009 , but this policy continues to draw more support than other ways to address America 's supply . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) favor more oil and gas drilling in U.S. waters and the same percentage favors allowing more mining and drilling on federally owned land . Support for increased offshore drilling is little changed from March , but has increased since last year 's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico . In June 2o1o , before the spill was contained , only 44 % favored more offshore drilling . Slightly fewer Americans favor increased offshore drilling today than did so a few months before the Gulf spill ( 63 % in February 2010 ) . More Americans continue to oppose ( 53 % ) than favor ( 39 % ) promoting the increased use of nuclear power . Support for increased use of nuclear power has not recovered following the nuclear disaster at Japan 's Fukushima nuclear power plant . Opinion about increased nuclear power had been divided prior to the Japan disaster . ( For more , see `` Opposition to Nuclear Power Rises Amid Japanese Crisis , '' March 21 , 2011 ) .
Part of the decline over the past year is linked to how the U.S. had handled the coronavirus pandemic . Across the 13 nations surveyed , a median of just 15 % say the U.S. has done a good job of dealing with the outbreak . In contrast , most say the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and European Union have done a good job , and in nearly all nations people give their own country positive marks for dealing with the crisis ( the U.S. and UK are notable exceptions ) . Relatively few think China has handled the pandemic well , although it still receives considerably better reviews than the U.S. response .
The Census Bureau 's recent report on characteristics of newly built housing reveals lots of interesting regional variations , beyond the widely reported fact that median square footage of single-family homes has resumed its pre-housing crash climb . For one , housing has n't grown evenly in all regions of the country . New homes are largest in the South , where the median floor area last year was 2,469 square feet ; they 're smallest in the Midwest , at a median 2,177 square feet . ( The median for the whole country is 2,384 square feet . ) But over the past four decades , home size has grown the most in the Northeast : The median floor area of a new home there was 61 % above the corresponding median in 1973 .
While the media focused intently last week on the escalating debate over U.S. policy in Iraq , the public took a typical summer hiatus from the major news stories of the week . The Iraq war , rather than the policy debate , was the news story the public focused on most closely , but even attention to the war was down substantially from previous weeks . A quarter of the public paid very close attention to events in Iraq , down from 36 % the week before and the lowest level recorded this year . Roughly the same proportion ( 24 % ) listed the war as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . Interest in the other ongoing news stories — the Iraq policy debate and the 2008 presidential campaign — was also somewhat lower than in previous weeks .
When asked about the most important problem facing the U.S. , Hispanics most often cited issues related to immigration ( 18 % ) and the economy ( 17 % ) , according to a December survey of Latino adults . Smaller shares said race relations or racism ( 10 % ) , health care ( 7 % ) , dissatisfaction with government or politics ( 6 % ) , crime ( 6 % ) , political polarization or national divisions ( 5 % ) , gun control ( 5 % ) and President Donald Trump ( 5 % ) . While Hispanic Democrats and Hispanic Republicans both cited immigration and the economy among the most important problems facing the nation , their views differed on Trump . For Hispanic Democrats , Trump ( 8 % ) is cited about as often as race relations and racism ( 11 % ) as the most important problem facing the country . By contrast , far lower shares of Hispanic Republicans cited Trump ( 2 % ) as the nation 's top problem .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) say that undocumented immigrants living in the United States mostly fill jobs that American citizens do not want . Nearly as many ( 65 % ) say undocumented immigrants are not more likely than U.S. citizens to commit serious crimes .
The threat of cyberattacks from other countries has been among the public 's top threats for several years . In the current survey , 74 % say cyberattacks are a major threat to the well-being of the U.S. , which is greater than the shares saying that about Iran 's nuclear program ( 57 % ) , global climate change ( also 57 % ) or other issues .
With a year to go in Obama 's presidency , the president 's job ratings continue to be very stable : 46 % approve of how Obama is handling his job as president , while about as many ( 48 % ) say they disapprove . There has been little movement in Obama 's job ratings since shortly after he won reelection . Obama is rated lower than Bill Clinton was at the start of his final year in office ( 56 % approved ) , but higher than George W. Bush was at a similar point in his presidency ( 31 % approved ) . Ronald Reagan began his final year in office with 50 % saying they approved of his performance ( slightly higher than Obama 's current rating ) ; Reagan 's ratings surged over the course of 1988 into the low 60s . ( For more , see `` Presidential Job Ratings from Ike to Obama '' ) .
In Japan , the only country in which nuclear weapons have been used in open warfare , nearly half of the public say the spread of such weapons is the greatest threat . Fading memories of the 1945 bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki may also explain why 18 - 29 year olds are less concerned about the spread of nuclear weapons than those 50 and older .
The Colorado case has reached the high court amid a backdrop of rising societal acceptance of homosexuality and same-sex marriage . Seven-in-ten Americans now say homosexuality should be accepted by society , up from 51 % who held this view in 2006 . Even among Republicans and those who lean toward the GOP , a slim majority ( 54 % ) now say society should accept homosexuality .
Roughly three-quarters ( 77 % ) of primary school students in the EU learn English as a foreign language , according to data from Eurostat . This includes all or nearly all young students in Austria , Malta , Italy , Spain and Cyprus . By comparison , German and French , the next most popular foreign languages , were studied by only 3.2 % and 3 % of EU primary school students , respectively . Learning English has been growing more popular in EU nations , with the share of young students studying English as a foreign language more than doubling from just 35 % in 2000 . Meanwhile , the share of young students studying French and German has remained below 15 % . Governments ( and parents ) may have their eye on preparing students for a global economy in which English is seen as the dominant language .
Among the public , three-in-ten ( 32 % ) followed Obama 's appointments and plans very closely , making it among the most closely followed stories of the week . One-in-four ( 24 % ) say that the transition was the story they followed most closely . Reports about President Bush 's last days in the White House were followed very closely by 12 % of the public ; this was the top story for 1 % of Americans . These stories accounted for 1 % of total news . News about U.S. economic conditions shared the public 's attention with the Obama transition and the conflict in the Middle East last week . Four-in-ten ( 42 % ) Americans followed the economy very closely ; 26 % said this was the new story they followed more closely than all other reporting . The media devoted 13 % of the newshole to reports about the economy . In other findings from Pew 's Weekly News Interest Index , one-in-four Americans say they followed news about Illinois Gov . Rod Blagojevich appointing Roland Burris to replace Obama in the Senate , despite an ongoing corruption investigation alleging Blagojevich attempted to sell the seat for personal gain . The Blagojevich saga was the most closely followed story of the week for 10 % of the public . Two-in-ten ( 22 % ) paid very close attention to news about the ongoing conflict in Afghanistan ; 5 % cited this as their top story .
Republicans are divided in their views , reflecting internal ideological differences . Half of Republicans and Republican leaners do not want the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade ; nearly as many ( 48 % ) would like to see the decision overturned . By 61 % to 37 % , conservative Republicans say they would like Roe v. Wade to be overturned . Moderate and liberal Republicans take the opposite view : 70 % do not want the Supreme Court to overturn the decision , while just 27 % say they want this to happen .
Six-in-ten religiously unaffiliated Americans – adults who describe their religious identity as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' – say the questioning of religious teachings is a very important reason for their lack of affiliation . The second-most-common reason is opposition to the positions taken by churches on social and political issues , cited by 49 % of respondents ( the survey asked about each of the six options separately ) . Smaller , but still substantial , shares say they dislike religious organizations ( 41 % ) , do n't believe in God ( 37 % ) , consider religion irrelevant to them ( 36 % ) or dislike religious leaders ( 34 % ) . Those who identify as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' tend to give different reasons for their lack of affiliation , showing that `` nones '' are far from a monolithic group . For example , about nine-in-ten self-described atheists ( 89 % ) say their lack of belief in God is a very important reason for their religious identity , compared with 37 % of agnostics and 21 % of those in the `` nothing in particular '' category . Atheists also are more likely than other `` nones '' to say religion is simply `` irrelevant '' to them ( 63 % of atheists vs. 40 % of agnostics and 26 % of adults with no particular religion ) .
The public paid far more attention to last week 's cold snap than to the controversy swirling around New Jersey Gov . Chris Christie . There also has been little short-term change in opinions about Christie : 60 % say their opinion of Christie has not changed in recent days , while 16 % now view him less favorably and 6 % more favorably .
The Leadership Conference of Women Religious ( LCWR ) , which includes representation from more than 80 % of American nuns , is set to hold its annual assembly next week in Nashville . The meeting comes as the organization continues to draw scrutiny from the leadership of the Roman Catholic Church , and also at a time when there has been a steep decline in the number of nuns . In addition to Vatican scrutiny , nuns also face a big challenge in their dwindling ranks . The total number of nuns , also called religious sisters , in the United States has fallen from roughly 180,000 in 1965 to about 50,000 in 2014 – a 72 % drop over those 50 years – according to the Center for Applied Research in the Apostolate ( CARA ) at Georgetown University . While the total number of priests ( diocesan and religious ) also has fallen over that period , it has done so at a much slower rate ( from about 59,000 to 38,000 , a 35 % drop ) .
The fact that WhatsApp is better known outside of the U.S. was likely one of the big reasons for Facebook 's move . A median of 78 % of mobile phone owners used their devices to send texts , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted last spring in 24 emerging and developing nations . ( One caveat is that while more than half of the people in each of the countries surveyed own a cell phone , ownership of app-capable smartphones pales by comparison ) .
However , as many say their greater concern is that the U.S. will go too far in getting involved in the situation in Iraq and Syria as that it will not go far enough in stopping Islamic militants ( 41 % each ) . That represents a shift in opinion since mid-August , when by 51 % to 32 % , more said their bigger concern was that the U.S. would get too involved in the situation in Iraq .
At that time , most Americans also said that increased trade with Canada and Japan – as well as India , Brazil and Mexico – would be good for the United States . For example , 60 % said increased trade with Japan would be good for the U.S . Reactions were more mixed to increased trade with South Korea and China . Roughly equal numbers said increased trade with China would be good ( 45 % ) or bad for the U.S. ( 46 % ) .
Views about the economic balance of power have shifted dramatically over time among the 14 countries surveyed each year from 2008 to 2012 . In 2008 , before the onset of the global financial crisis , a median of 45 % named the U.S. as the world 's leading economic power , while just 22 % said China . Today , only 36 % say the U.S. , while 42 % believe China is in the top position .
The share of Americans who favor conducting all elections by mail has risen 18 percentage points from 34 % in the fall of 2018 to 52 % today . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents account for most of this overall increase . Just prior to the 2018 midterm elections , four-in-ten Democrats said they favored conducting all elections by mail . Today , nearly seven-in-ten Democrats ( 69 % ) say this , including 34 % who strongly favor vote-by-mail elections .
Americans express a consistent lack of confidence about the security of everyday communication channels and the organizations that control them – particularly when it comes to the use of online tools . And they exhibited a deep lack of faith in organizations of all kinds , public or private , in protecting the personal information they collect . Only tiny minorities say they are `` very confident '' that the records maintained by these organizations will remain private and secure .
In all 10 advanced and emerging economies polled , large majorities say that in the next 50 years robots and computers will probably or definitely do much of the work currently done by humans . In three countries – Greece , South Africa and Argentina – four-in-ten or more believe this will definitely happen .
Meanwhile , the public continues to have largely negative views about the state of partisan divisions in the country . A majority of Americans ( 69 % ) say that divisions between Republicans and Democrats today are increasing , while just 8 % say they are decreasing and 23 % say they are staying the same .
The economy is at the forefront of Hispanic voters ' minds in this presidential election year , with 86 % saying the economy is very important to their vote , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . But while Hispanics are on the same page with the overall population about the importance of the economy , they are more positive about its condition and their family 's finances than some other racial and ethnic groups .
A sizable majority of Americans ( 68 % ) continue to say their greater concern is that state governments will lift coronavirus-related restrictions on public activity too quickly . Fewer than half as many ( 31 % ) say their greater concern is that states will not lift restrictions quickly enough , according to a new Pew Research Center survey that comes as some states begin to ease the restrictions they put in place to combat the spread of COVID-19 .
On this scale , the share of whites who show high levels of trust ( 27 % ) is twice as high as the share of black ( 13 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 12 % ) . The older a person is , the more likely they are to tilt toward more trustful answers . The more education Americans have , and the greater their household income , the greater the likelihood they are high on the personal trust spectrum . Those with less income and education are markedly more likely to be low trusters . Strikingly , nearly half of young adults ( 46 % ) are in the low trust group – a significantly higher share than among older adults .
Children with at least one unauthorized immigrant parent made up 6.9 % of students enrolled in kindergarten through 12th grade in the U.S .
Despite the sizeable differences between the Web and mail samples , most survey estimates produced by Web surveys will be a little different from those produced by surveys that cover the entire public . Of 406 separate estimates taken from nine waves of the American Trends Panel , just nine of them differed by 5 percentage points or more . Perhaps not surprisingly , all nine are related to internet or digital technology use . A Web-only survey estimated that 82 % of the public uses the internet on a daily basis , while the full sample ( including non-internet users ) finds 69 % go online daily . Similarly , there is a 10-point difference in the percentage of people who report having sent an email or text message to a friend or relative yesterday ( 79 % among the Web sample vs. 69 % among the full sample ) . There is also a 10-point difference in reported ownership of a laptop or desktop computer ( 90 % of the Web sample vs. 80 % overall ) .
There are large differences in how and when Americans vote across regions of the country . Some regions have embraced early voting and voting by mail , while others largely vote in person and on Election Day . Today , most voters in the Western U.S. ( 70 % ) vote before Election Day . By comparison , almost nine-in-ten voters in the Northeast ( 88 % ) say they voted on Election Day . In the South , voters are evenly split between voting early or on Election Day , while a majority in the Midwest ( 68 % ) voted on Election Day . Most Americans still vote in person , but in the West that is no longer the norm . About seven-in-ten Western voters ( 69 % ) cast their ballots by mail , compared with fewer than two-in-ten in the other regions . ( The West contains three states that conduct their elections entirely by mail : Colorado , Oregon and Washington . )
What 's happened ? In large part , the disappearance of moderate-to-liberal Republicans ( mainly in the Northeast ) and conservative Democrats ( primarily in the South ) . Since the 1970s , the congressional parties have sorted themselves both ideologically and geographically . The combined House delegation of the six New England states , for instance , went from 15 Democrats and 10 Republicans in 1973 - 74 to 20 Democrats and two Republicans in 2011 - 12 . In the South the combined House delegation essentially switched positions : from 91 Democrats and 42 Republicans in 1973 - 74 to 107 Republicans and 47 Democrats in 2011 - 12 .
Facebook remains the most popular social media platform , with its users visiting the site more regularly than users of other social media sites . Roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Facebook users report that they visit the site daily ( 55 % visit several times a day , and 22 % visit about once per day ) . This represents a modest but statistically significant increase from the 70 % of Facebook users who indicated that they visited the site daily in 2015 . Other than this slight uptick among Facebook users , daily engagement for each of the other major social media platforms is generally similar to Pew Research Center findings from 2015 . Instagram and Twitter occupy the middle tier of social media sites in terms of the share of users who log in daily . Roughly half ( 51 % ) of Instagram users access the platform on a daily basis , with 35 % saying they do so several times a day . And 42 % of Twitter users indicate that they are daily visitors , with 23 % saying they visit more than once a day . A slightly larger share of Americans use Pinterest and LinkedIn than use Twitter , but users of these sites are less likely than Twitter users to check in every day : 25 % of Pinterest users and 18 % of LinkedIn users are daily visitors .
Despite the recent uptick in the number who take a positive view of the situation in Iraq , perceptions of the U.S. military effort have declined over the long-term . A year ago , 63 % felt that the U.S. military effort was going very or fairly well ; currently , 54 % take a positive view of the military operation . Opposition to the decision to go to war also has been rising steadily . A year ago , 39 % opposed the decision to go to war , while 56 % were in favor . The public is now evenly split on the war ( 47 % right decision , 47 % wrong decision ) .
For example , in the Boulder , Colo. , metro area , more than eight-in-ten households not only have an internet connection , but it 's also an always-on , faster-than-dialup broadband subscription . In the Brownsville-Harlingen , Texas , metro area , though , only about half of households do .
In addition , many Americans lack faith in various public and private institutions to protect their personal information from bad actors . They express some level of concern about a variety of entities , ranging from telecommunications firms to credit card companies . But their fears are especially pronounced for two institutions in particular : the federal government and social media platforms . Some 28 % of Americans are not confident at all that the federal government can keep their personal information safe and secure from unauthorized users , while 24 % of social media users lack any confidence in these sites to protect their data . By contrast , just 12 % of Americans ( and 9 % of social media users ) have a very high level of confidence that these entities can keep their personal information safe and secure .
By the end of 2005 , 24 % of rural Americans had high-speed internet connections at home compared with 39 % of adult Americans living elsewhere . In 2003 , 9 % of rural Americans had broadband at home , less than half the rate ( 22 % ) in urban and suburban American . For overall internet use – by whatever connection from any location – the penetration rate for adult rural Americans lagged the rest of the country by 8 percentage points at the end of 2005 ( a 62 % to 70 % margin ) . This is about half the gap that existed at the end of 2003 . A consequence of the rural broadband adoption gap is that people in rural America use the internet less frequently , on average , than other Americans and do fewer things online on the average day than urban and suburban users . This is not because rural Americans have different tastes about the internet than people in cities or suburban areas ; it is because rural Americans , in the aggregate , have a lower penetration rate for a key factor behind the intensity of online use – a home high-speed internet connection .
Broadband use at home has risen fairly consistently since the Pew Internet Project began to measure it in 2000 , but growth rate has slowed somewhat in the general population .
As Americans prepare to celebrate the country 's birthday , a clear majority considers the U.S. to be one of the greatest countries in the world . But the view that the U.S. is exceptional – standing above all other countries in the world – has declined 10 points since 2011 . About three-in-ten ( 28 % ) think that the U.S. `` stands above all other countries in the world , '' while most ( 58 % ) say it is `` one of the greatest countries in the world , along with some others . '' Few Americans ( 12 % ) say there are other countries in the world `` that are better than the U.S. '' Three years ago , 38 % said the U.S. stood above all others , while 53 % said it was one of the greatest nations and 8 % thought some others were better than the U.S .
The unemployment rate for Hispanics in the U.S. has returned to a historic low last seen more than a decade ago , though other labor market measures show this group has not totally recovered from the Great Recession , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data . The Hispanic unemployment rate stood at 4.7 % in the second quarter of 2017 , about the same as in the second quarter of 2006 ( 4.9 % ) . The improving labor market prospects for Latinos mirror trends for U.S. workers overall . The national unemployment rate in the second quarter of 2017 was 4.2 % , compared with 4.6 % in the second quarter of 2006 . ( Estimates are non-seasonally adjusted , but seasonally adjusted data show the same trend . )
Will the U.S. Go Too Far – Or Not Far Enough ? Nearly half of Americans ( 48 % ) say their bigger concern about U.S. military action in Iraq and Syria is that it will not go far enough in stopping Islamic militants ; 43 % express the opposite concern – that the U.S. will go too far in getting involved in the situation .
Publics place responsibility for dealing with the evolving nature of work on a variety of institutions and actors . Government looms large in the minds of many . Nearly eight-in-ten Argentines say government has a lot of responsibility for ensuring that the nation 's workforce has the right skills and education to succeed in the future , and more than seven-in-ten hold this view in South Africa , Brazil , Greece and Italy . Only in the U.S. do fewer than half believe the government has a lot of responsibility for preparing the nation 's workforce . Schools , according to most , also have a major role to play in preparing workers for the future . Majorities in every country surveyed except Japan believe the educational system has a lot of responsibility for ensuring that the workforce has the proper skills and education for the jobs of the future . This perspective is especially common in Argentina , South Africa and Brazil . Most also see a role for individuals . This is particularly true in the U.S , Argentina and Brazil , where more than seven-in-ten say individuals themselves have a lot of responsibility for making sure they are prepared for the future economy . Again , Japan – where just 39 % express this opinion – is an outlier . Employers are seen as having somewhat less responsibility for making sure the workforce has the education and skills necessary for success . Still , roughly half or more believe employers have a lot of responsibility in Argentina , Brazil , South Africa , Hungary , Italy , the U.S. , Canada and Greece .
As lawmakers return for what promises to be a busy fall session , GOP congressional leaders face mounting disapproval among Tea Party Republicans . Just 27 % of Republicans and GOP leaners who agree with the Tea Party approve of the job Republican leaders in Congress are doing , compared with 71 % who disapprove . The job rating of GOP leaders among Tea Party Republicans has fallen 15 points since February , from 42 % to 27 % . Disapproval has risen from 54 % to 71 % over this period . There has been no similar decline among Republicans who do not agree with the Tea Party . Currently , 42 % of non-Tea Party Republicans and Republican leaners approve of how GOP leaders in Congress are handling their job , which is little changed over the past year .
Trials are rare in the federal criminal justice system – and acquittals are even rarer . Nearly 80,000 people were defendants in federal criminal cases in fiscal 2018 , but just 2 % of them went to trial . The overwhelming majority ( 90 % ) pleaded guilty instead , while the remaining 8 % had their cases dismissed , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data collected by the federal judiciary . Put another way , only 320 of 79,704 total federal defendants – fewer than 1 % – went to trial and won their cases , at least in the form of an acquittal , according to the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts . These statistics include all defendants charged in U.S. district courts with felonies and serious misdemeanors , as well as some defendants charged with petty offenses . They do not include federal defendants whose cases were handled by magistrate judges , or the much broader universe of defendants in state courts . Defendants who enter pleas of `` no contest '' are also excluded .
There is a strong relationship between a country 's religiosity and opinions about homosexuality .2 There is far less acceptance of homosexuality in countries where religion is central to people 's lives – measured by whether they consider religion to be very important , whether they believe it is necessary to believe in God in order to be moral , and whether they pray at least once a day . There are some notable exceptions , however . For example , Russia receives low scores on the religiosity scale , which would suggest higher levels of tolerance for homosexuality . Yet , just 16 % of Russians say homosexuality should be accepted by society . Conversely , Brazilians and Filipinos are considerably more tolerant of homosexuality than their countries ' relatively high levels of religiosity would suggest .
The number and share of Americans living in multigenerational family households have continued to rise , despite improvements in the U.S. economy since the Great Recession . In 2016 , a record 64 million people , or 20 % of the U.S. population , lived with multiple generations under one roof , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of census data .
Americans and Europeans may agree ISIS is a top threat , but they differ in how they rank other concerns . For example , while climate change is the second biggest concern in Europe , it is lower on the list in the U.S . Instead , Americans name cyberattacks as the second greatest threat . China 's emergence as a world power rates relatively low in both the U.S. and Europe , although Americans are more concerned than Europeans about Beijing 's growing power . Many Americans and Europeans believe their national influence is waning , although Germans believe their country 's influence is on the rise . A 46 % plurality of Americans believe the U.S. is less important and powerful than it was 10 years ago – a share that has been at historic highs in recent years . Majorities or pluralities also say their country is less important in Greece , Italy , Spain and France . However , just 11 % hold this view in Germany , which in many ways has taken a more prominent role in European political and economic affairs over the past decade . A 62 % majority there says Germany is more important than a decade ago .
In contrast to Republicans , Republican-leaning independents favored same-sex marriage ( 58 % were in favor , 37 % were opposed ) . Support for same-sex marriage was higher among Democratic-leaning independents than among Democrats ( 82 % vs. 73 % ) . Public support for legalizing marijuana use has followed a similar upward trajectory in recent years . Currently , 62 % of the public says the use of marijuana should be made legal , while 34 % say it should be illegal . Majorities of both Democrats ( 69 % ) and independents ( 68 % ) favor legalizing marijuana ; Republicans are divided , with 45 % supportive of legalization and 51 % opposed . Among GOP-leaning independents , a 60 % majority favors legalizing marijuana . And a large majority of Democratic-leaning independents ( 75 % ) also favors marijuana legalization .
As he nears the end of his second term in office , Prime Minister Erdogan gets positive ratings for his handling of foreign affairs . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) Turks have a lot or some confidence in Erdogan to do the right thing in world affairs , while one-third have little or no confidence in him . Beyond Turkey 's borders , Erdogan is also popular in a number of neighboring Arab nations . Strong majorities of Egyptians ( 78 % a lot or some confidence ) , Jordanians ( 72 % ) , and Lebanese ( 64 % ) express confidence in the Turkish prime minister , who , along with his Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu , has in many ways raised Turkey 's profile on the world stage in recent years . Erdogan , for example , has received considerable attention for breaking with previous Turkish policy and taking a more confrontational approach toward Israel regarding Israeli policies in the West Bank and Gaza . In the Palestinian territories themselves , Erdogan receives somewhat less support than in other Arab nations , with 52 % expressing confidence in the Turkish leader and 47 % saying they have little or no confidence in him . He is much more popular in the West Bank ( 61 % a lot or some confidence ) than in Gaza ( 35 % ) . The prime minister also fares poorly in Western Europe – clear majorities in Germany ( 69 % ) , Spain ( 63 % ) , and France ( 59 % ) give Erdogan a negative assessment . In the other European and predominantly Muslim nations where this question was asked , large numbers are unable to offer an opinion about the Turkish leader .
As Table One and Chart One show , the presidential and national party campaign organizations accounted for 93 % of the estimated ad spending detected through the Evaliant software in the first seven months of 2004 : Kerry for President ( 49.5 % ) , the Republican National Committee ( 18.3 % ) , Bush for President ( 15.7 % ) , and the Democratic National Committee ( 9.7 % ) . The 527s have largely ignored online advertising . ( As of the first week in September , Swift Boat Veterans for Truth had not run any online ads . )
But among Trump backers in particular , there are some notable differences in these views by strength of support for the candidate . Half of all Trump supporters say undocumented immigrants living in the U.S. are more likely than American citizens to commit serious crimes . However , 59 % of Trump supporters who support him strongly say this , compared with 42 % of those who do not support him strongly .
Most Americans believe undocumented immigrants should meet certain requirements before they are allowed to stay in the U.S. legally : 56 % say undocumented immigrants should have to pay fines before gaining legal status . A similar percentage ( 55 % ) backs a 10-year waiting period for most immigrants before permanent residency . There is much broader support for another requirement – fully 76 % of the public , including majorities of nearly every demographic group , say that undocumented immigrants should have to show they can speak and understand English before being allowed to stay in the U.S. legally .
By a 47 % -39 % margin , more Americans say they expect a health care reform bill to pass over the next year than say they do not . While still a plurality opinion , the percentage expecting passage of a health care bill has dropped since mid-October , just after the Senate Finance Committee approved legislation with the support of one Republican , Olympia Snowe of Maine . Since mid-October , opinion on this question has declined 10 points , with Republicans , Democrats and independents all less likely to say they think a health care reform bill will pass over the next year .
Overall , 36 % of U.S. adults say their family has achieved the American dream , while another 46 % say they are `` on their way '' to achieving it , according to an August survey by Pew Research Center . ( The survey asked people about the `` American dream , '' as they define it . ) People who say they have already achieved the American dream are generally older , more affluent and better-educated than those who say they are on their way to achieving the American dream and those who say it 's out of reach .
Fully 82 % say that Obama stands up for what he believes in ; 75 % said this a year ago . Nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) say Obama is able to get things done , up 11 points from a year ago , and 59 % say he is a strong leader , up seven points since then . Nonetheless , these personal ratings are all far lower than they were shortly after he took office four years ago . A few weeks after his inauguration , 70 % said he was able to get things done and even higher percentages gave him positive ratings for other attributes .
In addition to teasing out these differences between Twitter users and the population as a whole , this analysis also highlights the sizable diversity among Twitter users themselves . The median user tweets just twice each month , but a small cohort of extremely active Twitter users posts with much greater regularity . As a result , much of the content posted by Americans on Twitter reflects a small number of authors . The 10 % of users who are most active in terms of tweeting are responsible for 80 % of all tweets created by U.S. users .
Venezuela 's socialist leader Nicolás Maduro is no fan of the U.S. , but that does n't mean Venezuelans take the same view . According to Pew Research Center 's Spring 2014 global survey , Venezuelans have generally positive attitudes concerning the U.S. At a rate of two-to-one , the Venezuelan public holds a more favorable ( 62 % ) than unfavorable ( 31 % ) view of their biggest trade partner . This represents a nine point uptick in support since 2013 , when 53 % shared positive feelings toward the U.S . Younger Venezuelans are especially likely to view the U.S. favorably – 66 % of those ages 18 - 29 express a positive opinion . Still , a majority of those ages 50 and older ( 56 % ) also perceive the U.S. favorably . The biggest disagreements about the U.S. break along ideological lines . Venezuelans who lean to the right of the political spectrum see the U.S. in an overwhelmingly positive light ( 84 % ) , while only 12 % have a negative opinion . Venezuela 's political left , which aligns with President Maduro 's United Socialist Party of Venezuela , tends to be more critical of the U.S. ( 62 % unfavorable v. 34 % favorable ) . This is none too surprising given the tumultuous relationship between Maduro and the U.S. in recent months and the many years of tension between Washington and Maduro 's predecessor , Hugo Chávez . Chávez , who blamed the U.S. for organizing a coup against him in 2002 , often stoked anti-American sentiment with colorful quips , including claims that the U.S. `` invented technology to spread cancer '' to South American leaders and referring to then-President George W. Bush as `` the devil , '' `` a donkey '' and `` a drunkard . '' Despite this , a majority of moderates ( 63 % ) see America favorably . Meanwhile , most Venezuelans have a negative opinion of Venezuela 's political and economic ally , Cuba . The two countries have a very interdependent relationship , with Venezuela sending Cuba subsidized oil in exchange for Cuban doctors , teachers and military advisors . Yet 57 % of Venezuelans give Cuba an unfavorable rating , with fully 38 % saying they have a very unfavorable impression of their trade partner . Only 37 % have a favorable outlook . The most notable difference of opinion hinges on political ideology . While roughly seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) left-leaning Venezuelans view Cuba favorably , only 14 % on the right share this attitude . Moderates also tend to be more disapproving of Cuba ( 34 % favorable v. 54 % unfavorable ) . Protestors in Caracas earlier this year , lauded by opposition groups in both Venezuela and Cuba , attributed such feelings to the perceived `` Cubanization '' of Venezuela , claiming that the Cuban government increasingly plays a role in Venezuelan efforts to suppress dissidents and wants to force Cuba 's strict socialist ideas onto Venezuelans .
By increasingly wide margins , Americans say they want to see U.S. troops return from Iraq as soon as possible , as opposed to staying until the situation there has stabilized . Currently , 56 % favor bringing the troops home as soon as possible – the most ever in a Pew survey – while 39 % say troops should stay until things are stable . The percent saying the troops should come home soon is up two points since April , and 11 points since June 2006 .
Since 2003 , the GOP has consistently been viewed as more friendly to religion than the Democratic Party . In November 2011 , 43 % of Americans said the Republican Party was friendly to religion , while 30 % said the Democratic Party was friendly to religion .
With refugee resettlement organizations scattered throughout the country , U.S. refugees have been resettled in almost every state . Even so , just a handful of states have accepted the majority of U.S. refugees . The three most populated U.S. states – California , Texas and New York – have taken in more than a quarter ( 27 % ) of refugees entering the U.S. since 2002 . Other top states for total refugee resettlement between fiscal 2002 and 2017 include Florida ( more than 47,000 ) , Washington ( nearly 42,000 ) and Minnesota ( more than 41,000 ) . In all , more than half ( 57 % ) of refugees entering the U.S. since 2002 have settled in the top 10 states for refugee resettlement . Regionally , more than a quarter of refugees entering the U.S. between fiscal 2002 and 2017 were resettled in each of the following regions : Southern states ( including top states Texas and Florida ) , Western states ( including top states California and Washington ) , and Midwestern states ( including top states Minnesota and Michigan ) . The remainder of refugees ( 16 % ) entering the U.S. between 2002 and 2017 were resettled in Northeastern states ( including top states New York and Pennsylvania ) .
However , European publics are notably less enthusiastic . In France , home to large demonstrations when the Olympic torch passed through the country , a clear 55 % -majority calls the decision to hold the games in China a mistake . On balance , the British and Spanish approve of holding the event in China , while Germans , Americans and Poles are more divided on this question . And , unlike in other Asian nations , opposition to the Beijing Games runs high in Japan — 55 % of Japanese disapprove of the decision to hold the Olympics there , while just 39 % approve .
After decades of strong gains , the share of women in the U.S. labor force has plateaued in recent years . Recently released projections from the Bureau of Labor Statistics indicate that the female share of the labor force will peak at 47.1 % in 2025 and then taper off to 46.3 % by 2060 , meaning that women will remain a minority of the labor force . Most economists say a decline in labor force participation is a matter of concern because improvements in the nation 's standard of living depend on labor force participation and productivity growth . The rapid increase in the share of women entering the labor force between 1950 and 2000 boosted overall labor force participation and spurred an increase in living standards ( as measured by gross domestic product per person ) . The decline in participation since 2000 has worked to the opposite effect , depressing economic growth .
In other news , about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they very closely followed the Iranian government 's crackdown on election protesters last week . That 's comparable to the 28 % that said they were following the post-election protests in Iran very closely one week earlier and indicates continued strong interest in the story . Close to two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed developments in Iran more closely than any other story . A comparable share ( 29 % ) say they followed reports about the debate in Washington on health care reform very closely . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed the health care debate more closely than any other major story . Those stories made up 7 % of coverage , according to PEJ .
The sense that increasing presidential power would be `` too risky '' has grown among Democrats since August , when Barack Obama was still president : While a 66 % majority said giving presidents greater powers would be too risky in August , nearly nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) now say this . Conversely , while 82 % of Republicans expressed concern about increasing presidential powers relative to the other branches of government in August , a smaller majority ( 65 % ) say this today .
Varying views of obligations of good citizenship . Large majorities say it is very important to vote , pay taxes and always follow the law in order to be a good citizen . Half of Americans say it is very important to know the Pledge of Allegiance , while 45 % say it is very important to protest government actions a person believes is wrong . Just 36 % say displaying the American flag is very important to being a good citizen .
As we found during the campaign , Republicans and Democrats are more likely to discuss the election with people on their side than with those on the other side . Eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners say they 've had a conversation with someone who supported Trump , and about seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 72 % ) say they 've had a conversation with someone who supported Hillary Clinton . By contrast , fewer Republicans ( 45 % ) and Democrats ( 40 % ) say they 've had a conversation with a supporter of the other candidate .
A majority of Latino ( 60 % ) and black ( 64 % ) officers say it should be up to federal authorities to identify undocumented immigrants . On the other hand , a majority of white officers ( 59 % ) say that when it comes to identifying undocumented immigrants , local police should take an active role .
The biggest story is among Hispanics , who have made big gains in college enrollment , a measure that includes both two- and four-year schools . From 1996 to 2012 , college enrollment among Hispanics ages 18 to 24 more than tripled ( 240 % increase ) , outpacing increases among blacks ( 72 % ) and whites ( 12 % ) . ( The Census Bureau did not publish Asian college enrollment figures before 1999 . ) In fact , for the first time in 2012 , Hispanics'college enrollment rate among 18- to 24 year-old high school graduates surpassed that of whites , by 49 % to 47 % .
The proposed border wall is deeply divisive along partisan lines . By nearly two-to-one ( 63 % to 33 % ) , Republicans and GOP leaners favor building a wall along the entire U.S.-Mexico border . By contrast , just 13 % of Democrats favor building a border wall , while 84 % are opposed . There also are substantial generational and ethnic differences in views of a border wall . Just 20 % of Millennials favor building a wall along the entire U.S.-Mexico border , which is far lower than the shares of Gen Xers ( 36 % ) , Boomers ( 43 % ) and Silents ( 47 % ) who favor this proposal . Whites ( 43 % favor ) are more than twice as likely as blacks ( 13 % ) and Hispanics ( 16 % ) to favor building a border wall .
There is a strong relationship between age and television news habits . Younger adults are less likely than older adults to often get news via all three TV platforms . For example , just 8 % of those ages 18 to 29 often get news from network TV , compared with 49 % of those 65 and older . Education and income also play a role in local and network TV news consumption habits . For instance , among adults who have completed college , 26 % often get news from local TV and 21 % from network TV – much less than those with no more than a high school degree ( 47 % and 31 % , respectively ) . News use on cable varies little by education or income , however .
Gender differences are also seen within each party . Republican men stand out for valuing people being able to speak their minds freely online over people being able to feel welcome and safe online . These Republican men ( 63 % ) are more likely than Republican women ( 44 % ) and both Democratic men ( 44 % ) and women ( 34 % ) to back that idea . Similarly , 76 % of Republican men say many people take offensive content they see online too seriously , compared with 67 % of Republican women who say the same . While the shares of Democrats who support this view are much smaller , Democratic men are more likely to voice the view that offensive content online is taken too seriously compared with Democratic women ( 43 % vs. 36 % ) . These gender differences on the issue of whether people take offensive content they see online too seriously are largely due to the differences between conservative Republican men and women ( 80 % vs. 68 % ) and liberal Democratic men and women ( 36 % vs. 27 % ) ; their more moderate counterparts differed little by gender .
Around two-thirds of registered voters in the U.S. ( 65 % ) do not have a college degree , while 36 % do . But the share of voters with a college degree has risen substantially since 1996 , when 24 % had one . Voters who identify with the Democratic Party or lean toward it are much more likely than their Republican counterparts to have a college degree ( 41 % vs. 30 % ) . In 1996 , the reverse was true : 27 % of GOP voters had a college degree , compared with 22 % of Democratic voters .
There have been substantial changes over time on many of the eight international threats asked about in the 2018 survey . For example , in 2013 , well before the Paris climate agreement was signed , a median of 56 % across 23 countries surveyed said global climate change was a major threat to their country . That climbed to 63 % in 2017 , and in 2018 it stands at 67 % .
Not surprisingly , when it comes to their own religious beliefs and practices , FSU Jews also are considerably more secular than Israeli Jews overall based on a number of measures , such as belief in God , lighting Sabbath candles and keeping kosher . But the survey also finds that the children of FSU Jews ( i.e. , second-generation immigrants ) are significantly more religiously observant than their parents ' generation , and their beliefs and practices are closer in line with those of the Israeli Jewish public overall . For example , children of FSU immigrants are more likely than their parents to believe in God ( 70 % vs. 55 % ) . Only 60 % of second-generation FSU Jews say they are Hiloni ( secular ) , compared with 81 % of FSU immigrants who say so . And while 4 % of first-generation immigrants say they are Haredi ( ultra-Orthodox ) , among the second generation , this proportion has climbed to 14 % .
Nearly half of Americans ( 48 % ) say they expect economic conditions a year from now to be better than today , up from 40 % in February . Over the same period , the percentage saying they expect their personal finances to improve at least some has risen from 54 % to 63 % .
Meanwhile , fewer Democrats say the news media are treating either candidate fairly than in past years . While eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners said the news media were fair in their coverage of Obama in 2008 , this figure dropped to 62 % in 2012 , and is now about half ( 48 % ) for Clinton . Similarly , their share for the Republican candidate fell from 67 % in 2008 to 40 % this year .
Americans and Europeans are looking inward . Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) believe the U.S. should deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their problems as best they can ; just 37 % think the U.S. should help other countries solve problems . On balance , Europeans are also focused on their own challenges , although half or more in Spain , Germany and Sweden want to help other nations . While this nation-first sentiment has seen little change in recent years in Europe , it has grown by 11 percentage points since 2010 in the U.S .
The survey finds that , after nearly a month in office , Obama 's personal image is extremely strong . Overwhelming majorities view Obama as a strong leader ( 77 % ) and trustworthy ( 76 % ) , while an even higher percentage ( 92 % ) says he is a good communicator . Moreover , the belief that Obama represents a break from politics as usual is widespread , despite the highly partisan reaction to his economic stimulus proposal . About two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) – including a narrow majority of Republicans – say that Obama `` has a new approach to politics in Washington '' ; that compares with 25 % who say his approach is `` business as usual . ''
Opposition to Iran developing nuclear weapons is nearly unanimous in Germany , Japan , France , and Great Britain , as well as in the U.S. Opinion in predominantly Muslim countries varies widely : solid majorities in Turkey ( 61 % ) and Indonesia ( 59 % ) oppose Iran acquiring nuclear weapons , but people in Egypt and Jordan are divided , and most Pakistanis ( 52 % ) favor Iran acquiring nuclear weapons . In addition , more people in major industrialized nations than in Muslim countries believe that Iran wants a nuclear program to develop weapons , not nuclear energy .
Every two years , the Bureau of Labor Statistics makes a projection of what the nation 's workforce will look like 10 years into the future . Its latest projection , released last month , foresees an America in which more people work longer into their older years . By 2022 , the agency projects that 31.9 % of those ages 65 to 74 will still be working . That compares with 20.4 % of the same age bracket in the workforce in 2002 and 26.8 % who were in the workforce in 2012 . The agency 's data finds the dividing line is age 55 : labor force participation is expected to fall for those under that age who are considered the prime workforce group , and to rise for those above that age . There is less of an increase projected for 55-to-64 year olds . In 2002 , 61.9 % of Americans in this age group were in the workforce , a number that increased to 64.5 % in 2012 . The 2022 projection is that 67.5 % will remain in the workforce .
Opinion leaders are divided over whether the U.S. should pursue policies to ensure that America remains the world 's only superpower . Religious leaders and scientists and engineers — groups that generally support a more limited leadership role for America — believe it would be acceptable if a rival military power emerged . However , most state and local government officials , military leaders , and foreign affairs experts say U.S. policies should be aimed at retaining America 's status as the sole military superpower . Half of the public also favors U.S. policies to maintain America 's position as the only superpower , while 35 % say it would be acceptable if China , another country , or the European Union became as militarily powerful as the U.S .
After clearing a major legal hurdle with the Supreme Court three years ago , the Affordable Care Act faces another high court battle this week that could deal a major blow to the law . This time , the question is whether four words – `` established by the state '' – are enough to invalidate a vital part of the health care law . About five years after President Barack Obama 's signature health care law passed , more than 11 million Americans have signed up for health insurance through the program . And public opinion has remained steady : A greater share disapproves ( 53 % ) than approves ( 45 % ) of the ACA , also known as Obamacare , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Feb. 18 - 22 . As was the case even before the original bill came up for a vote in Congress , public opinion regarding the program continues to fall along party lines , with nearly nine-in-ten Republicans ( 87 % ) against the 2010 health care law and roughly eight-in-ten Democrats ( 78 % ) in support of it . Independents disapprove of the ACA by a margin of 58 % -39 % .
Establishing a way for most unauthorized immigrants to stay in the country legally is the top immigration policy goal for Hispanics in the United States , with more than half ( 54 % ) saying it is very important , according to a national Pew Research Center survey of Hispanic adults conducted in December . While a significant partisan gap exists on this issue , strong majorities of Hispanic Democrats and Republicans say this immigration policy goal is at least somewhat important .
Despite parents ' belief that their children should go to college , a majority of Americans ( 57 % ) say the higher education system in the United States fails to provide students with good value for the money they and their families spend . An even larger majority — 75 % –says college is too expensive for most Americans to afford . ( See `` Is College Worth It ? Overview . '' ) Women , who have made substantial gains in educational attainment in recent decades , have a more favorable view of the higher education system overall than do men . This gender gap is based solely on differences between men and women under the age of 50 . Among women in that age cohort , nearly half ( 46 % ) say the higher education system is doing an excellent or good job providing value for the money spent . This compares with only 36 % of men under age 50 .
The justices effectively legalized same-sex marriage nationwide in a major 2015 ruling . But even before the decision , public opinion had turned in favor of gay marriage . In the Center 's most recent survey on the question – conducted in June 2017 – 62 % of Americans said they favored allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , about twice the share who opposed it ( 32 % ) . As recently as 2010 , a larger share of Americans had opposed than favored allowing gay and lesbian people to marry legally ( 48 % vs. 42 % ) .
There continue to be substantial generational , partisan and racial differences over gay marriage . Since the 1990s , however , support has increased across most demographic and political groups . The shift in opinion has been driven in no small part by generational change . Millennials ( born after 1980 ) are the most in favor of gay marriage ( 61 % favor ) , followed by Gen Xers , born between 1965 and 1980 ( 48 % ) . There is somewhat less support among Baby Boomers ( 40 % ) , born 1946 to 1964 , and members of the Silent Generation ( 32 % ) , born 1928 to 1945 . A majority of Democrats ( 56 % ) favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , as do 51 % of independents . By comparison , just 27 % of Republicans favor same-sex marriage while 66 % are opposed . In recent years , support for gay marriage has risen sharply among Democrats and independents , while Republicans ' views have shown less change . Both whites and blacks have become more likely to favor marriage rights for gays in recent years , but the increase in support has been larger among whites . In 2011 , 49 % off whites and 36 % of blacks said they favored allowing gay and lesbian couples to marry legally .
Similarly , when given the choice of two governing principles , `` It 's best for the future of our country to be active in world affairs '' or `` We should pay less attention to problems overseas and concentrate on problems here at home , '' younger people prefer to focus on their own country . In 2003 , only 39 % of those under age 30 thought it best to be active , while 53 % of those ages 30 - 64 and nearly half ( 49 % ) of those 65 and older preferred international activism .
An estimated 800,000 to 1.2 million unauthorized immigrants lived in the United Kingdom in 2017 , according to new Pew Research Center estimates based on the latest available data . This number is little changed since 2014 .
The survey also found wide differences between Trump and Clinton voters over how best to address the nation 's problems . Nearly two-thirds of voters overall ( 65 % ) – including an overwhelming share of Clinton supporters ( 84 % ) – said the more effective way to solve problems is with proven approaches that solve problems gradually , even if change may take a while . But Trump voters were divided on the best approach to solving problems in this country . About half ( 53 % ) favored `` new approaches that may solve problems quickly , but also risk making things worse . '' Conversely , 46 % of Trump backers preferred a proven , if slower , approach to problem-solving .
These data provide an incomplete answer . In addition to being asked how often their job makes them feel angry or frustrated , police officers were asked how often they feel fulfilled by their job . In a separate Pew Research Center survey of the general public conducted Aug. 16-Sept. 12 , 2016 , the 2,767 employed adults included in the survey were asked how often their jobs make them feel frustrated or fulfilled . The question measuring job-related anger was not asked in the general public survey , however . Employed Americans , on average , express considerably less frustration on the job than do police . Only 29 % of the public but 51 % of officers say their job nearly always or often makes them feel frustrated . At the same time , the typical worker more often feels fulfilled by their work than do police officers ( 52 % vs. 42 % ) .
The two biggest groups of the unemployed are people who 've lost their jobs permanently ( as opposed to those who are temporarily laid off or furloughed but expect to be recalled ) , and people who 've resumed their job search and thus are once again considered part of the labor force . Last month , according to BLS , 2.8 million Americans who re-entered the labor force but had n't yet found jobs were counted as unemployed . Those `` re-entrants , '' as the BLS calls them , made up 31.6 % of the total unemployed population – the highest level since before the Great Recession . That 's a sign the strengthening economy is making people who 've been on the economic sidelines confident enough about their job prospects to start looking again . January was the seventh straight month in which re-entrants outnumbered people who 'd been fired , permanently laid off or otherwise lost their jobs permanently . Last month , 26.5 % of the unemployed were in this category ; their share has been steadily shrinking for four-and-a-half years .
A median of 78 % in the eight countries surveyed say a lack of jobs is a very big problem in their country . And a median of 71 % cite the public debt . Except in Germany , overwhelming majorities in many countries say unemployment , the public debt , rising prices and the gap between the rich and the poor are very important problems . Unemployment is the number one worry in seven of the eight countries . Inequality is the principle concern in Germany . Apprehension about economic mobility and inequality is also widespread . Across the eight nations polled , a median of 66 % , including 90 % of the French , think children today will be worse off financially than their parents when they grow up . A median of 77 % believe that the economic system generally favors the wealthy . This includes 95 % of the Greeks , 89 % of the Spanish and 86 % of the Italians . A median of 60 % think the gap between the rich and the poor is a very big problem ; that sentiment is felt by 84 % of the Greeks and 75 % of both the Italians and the Spanish . And a median of 85 % say such inequality has increased in the past five years , a concern particularly prevalent among the Spanish ( 90 % ) .
The partisan divide over dealing with global warming is especially striking . A January survey found 54 % of Democrats view this as a top priority for the president and Congress compared with just 15 % of Republicans . Democrats also are 31 points more likely than Republicans to prioritize protecting the environment ( 66 % of Democrats vs. 35 % of Republicans ) .
The post-election survey by the Pew Research Center finds that about half of Americans ( 48 % ) are happy the Republican Party won control of the Senate , while 38 % are unhappy . That is almost a carbon copy of the public 's reactions to the 2010 election : 48 % were happy the GOP won control of the House , while 34 % were unhappy . There was much greater public enthusiasm after the Democrats gained control of Congress in 2006 , and after the GOP swept to victory in both the House and Senate in the 1994 midterm election .
Three years after a record 1.3 million migrants sought asylum in Europe , a majority of people in several European countries say they support taking in refugees who are fleeing violence and war , according to a Pew Research Center survey . However , most people in these countries disapprove of the way the European Union has dealt with the refugee issue .
For example , in the unlikely instance that 100 % of the cell-only adults favored a troop withdrawal from Iraq , and landline respondents remained divided ( with 54 % favoring withdrawal ) , then the combined survey estimate would shift to 59 % – a five-point increase . The standard survey alone would underestimate national support for withdrawal . Alternatively , if just 30 % of the cell-only respondents favored withdrawal , the combined estimate would be 50 % , four points below the current estimate from the landline survey . These effects are potentially greater when analyzing subgroups in the population , such as young people , who are less likely to be reached on a landline . For example , if 100 % of cell-only young people ( ages 18 - 29 ) favored a troop withdrawal , the combined sample estimate for this age group would be 72 % in favor of withdrawal , rather than the 60 % that the landline sample of young people produces .
Looking at a separate measure of interest , 34 % of the public says they followed news about the debt talks very closely . That 's up from 25 % one week earlier . Still , it falls short of the 47 % who very closely followed the final days of the April budget standoff between the White House and congressional Republicans that nearly led to a government shutdown .
As mentioned previously , ratings for al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden have generally declined in recent years , and he receives little support among most Muslim publics . However , about half ( 51 % ) of Palestinians express confidence in him and in Nigeria , 54 % -majority of the country 's Muslim population say they are confident in bin Laden 's leadership . In Pakistan , where many believe bin Laden is now hiding , only 18 % express confidence in him , although 35 % do not offer an opinion . Very few Turks ( 3 % ) or Lebanese ( 2 % ) express support for the terrorist leader .
Only about half ( 53 % ) of those under 30 who initially identified as Republicans or leaned Republican consistently remained with the party over four subsequent surveys . Among older Republicans , 80 % or more consistently identified as Republicans or leaned Republican . To be sure , 21 % of young Republicans left the GOP at some point after December 2015 , but returned by March . But nearly a quarter aligned with the Democrats in March : Among those under 30 who initially identified as Republicans or leaned Republican in December 2015 , 23 % shifted to the Democratic Party ( they identified or leaned Democratic ) .
Now that the first session of the 113th Congress has passed into history , it seems appropriate to take another look at its productivity , or lack thereof . However , as of today ( and after extending our analysis back to the 104th Congress of 1995 - 96 ) , the 113th has passed fewer substantive measures than any Congress in two decades — just 55 laws , versus 63 in 2011 ( the first year of the 112th Congress , itself one of the least productive in recent history ) . Overall , the current Congress has enacted only 65 laws , according to the Library of Congress ' THOMAS website and the White House 's log of signed legislation .
About eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) Republicans say too many people are easily offended , while just 21 % say people should be more careful to avoid offending others . Among Democrats , 61 % think people should be more careful not to offend others , compared with 37 % who say people these days are too easily offended .
Though the number fluctuates almost daily , there are roughly 3,000 inmates on the nation 's death rows . An annual report from the Bureau of Justice Statistics put the total death row population at 2,979 as of Dec. 31 , 2013 . ( A quarterly reckoning by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund put the number at 3,019 as of Jan. 1 , 2015 , using somewhat different methodology . )
The grim public mood is reflected in the record share of voters who want most members of Congress defeated in next year 's midterm elections . Nearly three-quarters ( 74 % ) of registered voters would like to see most members of Congress defeated ; during the 2010 and 2006 election cycles , which both culminated in shifts in control of the House , no more than 57 % in each of these two cycles wanted most members of Congress not to be reelected . Moreover , the share saying they do not want their own representative reelected – 38 % – is as high as it has been in two decades . At this stage in the 2010 and 2006 midterms , fewer wanted to see their own member of Congress defeated ( 29 % in November 2009 , 25 % in September 2005 ) .
At a time of low public trust in the federal government , a majority of Americans ( 62 % ) say they have a favorable view of the Supreme Court . However , Democrats and Republicans are increasingly divided in their assessments of the court . Today , three-quarters of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents have a favorable opinion of the Supreme Court , compared with only about half ( 49 % ) of Democrats and Democratic leaners , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The 26 percentage point difference between the two parties is among the widest it has been over the past two decades . Republicans ' views of the court have grown much more positive over the past four years . In 2015 , following the court 's end-of-term rulings upholding same-sex marriage and most of the Affordable Care Act , GOP views of the Supreme Court reached a 30-year low ; just 33 % had a favorable opinion . The share of Republicans with a favorable view of the court rose to 82 % this past January – equaling its highest point in decades – before slipping to 75 % in the most recent survey .
Asked about their impressions of coverage of the budget deficit and national debt , fully 73 % say that deficit news seems to be the same all the time with nothing ever really changing . Another 55 % say they often feel they do not have enough background information to follow budget news stories . About half ( 49 % ) say that news about the deficit issue depresses them .
Most American adults ( 82 % ) say Muslims are subject to at least some discrimination in the U.S. today , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March – including a majority ( 56 % ) who say Muslims are discriminated against a lot . In this year 's survey , roughly two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) also say Jews face at least some discrimination in the U.S. , up 20 percentage points from the last time this question was asked in 2016 . More say Jews face some discrimination than a lot ( 39 % vs. 24 % ) .
Americans ages 50 and older are more likely to pay for local news than their younger counterparts . Around three-in-ten ( 29 % ) of those ages 65 and older and 15 % of those 50 to 64 say they have paid a local news organization in the past year . By comparison , just 9 % of those ages 30 to 49 and 7 % of those 18 to 29 say they have done so . White Americans and those with a college education are also more likely to pay for local news than their counterparts . For example , a little over two-in-ten Americans with a college degree ( 22 % ) say they have paid for local news in the past year , compared with 13 % of those with some college education and just one-in-ten of those with a high school diploma or less .
However , other industries are even more reliant on near-minimum-wage workers . Based on our estimates , industries where more than three-quarters of the hourly workers make more than minimum but less than $ 10.10 an hour include scrapyards , video-rental stores ( the few remaining ) , mail-order houses , makers of mobile homes and other prefabricated buildings , and car washes .
Many Asian countries – including China , Korea , Japan and Vietnam – use a lunar calendar in addition to the solar calendar commonly used in the United States . People in those countries – as well as here in the United States – will start celebrating the Lunar New Year this weekend . Overall , about two-thirds of Chinese , Korean , Japanese and Vietnamese Americans ( 68 % ) celebrate the Lunar New Year , or what is often referred to as the Chinese New Year . Commemoration of the Lunar New Year is highest among Vietnamese Americans ( 93 % ) and Chinese Americans ( 82 % ) – who are about as likely to celebrate the Lunar New Year as to celebrate Thanksgiving . Fewer Korean Americans ( 45 % ) and Japanese Americans ( 30 % ) say they celebrate the Lunar New Year .
The current controversy is bringing international attention to the role of women in Saudi society , but more broadly the kingdom has a poor reputation globally for how it treats its citizens . In a spring 2013 survey , a median of only 18 % across 39 countries said that the government of Saudi Arabia respects the personal freedoms of its people . This compares with a median of 70 % who say the U.S. respects human rights , and 36 % who believe the same about China . Saudi Arabia does score higher in this regard than Iran , but few publics have a high opinion about either government 's treatment of their own people .
In November 2014 , before Clinton had declared her candidacy , Democrats were more enthused than Republicans about a potential female president . This partisan difference was bigger than the gender difference among survey respondents . Our survey question asked people whether they hoped a female president will be elected in their lifetime , or whether that did not matter to them . For many , the prospect of a Clinton presidency may have influenced their responses to this `` hypothetical '' question . Democratic women ( 69 % ) were the most likely to say they hoped a female U.S. president would be elected in their lifetimes , followed by Democratic men ( 46 % ) and independent women ( 45 % ) . Among Republicans , fewer women ( 20 % ) and men ( 16 % ) said they hoped for this , as did about a third ( 32 % ) of independent men .
As it turns out , the U.S. is the only country out of 102 examined in the study that has higher-than-average levels of both prayer and wealth . In every other country surveyed with a gross domestic product of more than $ 30,000 per person , fewer than 40 % of adults say they pray every day .
For the first time in modern history , the world 's population is expected to virtually stop growing by the end of this century , due in large part to falling global fertility rates , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of new data from the United Nations . By 2100 , the world 's population is projected to reach approximately 10.9 billion , with annual growth of less than 0.1 % – a steep decline from the current rate . Between 1950 and today , the world 's population grew between 1 % and 2 % each year , with the number of people rising from 2.5 billion to more than 7.7 billion .
Younger Republicans are especially likely to say that Republicans in Congress are not obligated to support Trump 's policies if they disagree with them ; those ages 50 to 64 are about evenly divided in their views . By contrast , a majority of Republicans 65 and older say that Republican lawmakers in Washington do have an obligation to support the president 's policies even if they disagree . Conservative Republicans and Republican leaners are split in their views : About as many say GOP lawmakers have an obligation to support Trump 's policies ( 47 % ) as say they do not ( 50 % ) . Most moderate and liberal Republicans ( 72 % ) say Republicans in Congress are not obligated to support Trump 's policies if they disagree with them .
Overall , roughly one-third of Americans who identify as Republican or as Republican-leaning independents do not agree with their party on abortion ( 35 % ) , including 12 % who say they agree with the Democratic Party on abortion and 23 % who say they do not agree with either party . Among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents , three-in-ten do not agree with their party on abortion , including 7 % who say they agree with the GOP and 22 % who say they do n't agree with either party . ( The same 2019 survey found that roughly a fifth to a third of Americans do n't agree with their party on issues including policies to deal with the economy , health care and illegal immigration . )
For most American mothers , part-time work would be their ideal work situation , preferred over full-time work or not working at all outside the home . However , there are sharp differences among views of mothers based on factors such as economic circumstances and marital status . Working part time has consistently been the top choice for women with at least one child under the age of 18 in the three years that the question was asked . Nearly half of mothers ( 47 % ) in 2012 said that their ideal situation would be to work part time . The share was 50 % in 2007 and 44 % in 1997 .
About half of Americans ( 49 % ) say the slow pace in evaluating the safety and effectiveness of medical treatments is a big problem . Some 46 % say a big problem is that health care providers are too quick to order potentially unnecessary tests and procedures , 44 % cite new treatments being made available before we fully understand their effects and 42 % say new treatments are so complex that patients can not make informed decisions .
The share who say climate change is a major threat in each country ranges from 59 % in Australia to 83 % in France , Spain and Italy . Two-thirds or more say the same in Canada , Germany , the Netherlands , Belgium , the UK , Japan and South Korea .
The Obama administration deported 414,481 unauthorized immigrants in fiscal year 2014 , a drop of about 20,000 ( or 5 % ) from the prior year , newly released Department of Homeland Security data show . A total 2.4 million were deported under the administration from fiscal 2009 to 2014 , including a record 435,000 in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the data . The overall decrease is driven by a significant decline in deportations of immigrants with a criminal conviction – from 199,000 in 2013 to 168,000 in 2014 . The 16 % drop is just the second decline on record ( 1981 is the first year for which deportation data of those with criminal convictions are available ) . Some of this decline can be attributed to an increased focus in recent years on deporting at-large convicted criminals , as well as to an increase in 2014 in the number of state and local law enforcement agencies that did not honor immigration authorities ' requests to detain for deportation those who were in jail .
More recently , some sociologists have argued that there is a link between relatively high levels of income inequality in the U.S. and continued high levels of religiosity . These researchers posit that less-well-off people in the U.S. and other countries with high levels of income inequality may be more likely to seek comfort in religious faith because they also are more likely to experience financial and other insecurities .
More than 80 % of the public polls used to track key indicators of U.S. public opinion , such as the President 's approval rating or support for Democratic presidential candidates , are conducted using online opt-in polling .1 A new study by Pew Research Center finds that online polls conducted with widely-used opt-in sources contain small but measurable shares of bogus respondents ( about 4 % to 7 % , depending on the source ) . Critically , these bogus respondents are not just answering at random , but rather they tend to select positive answer choices – introducing a small , systematic bias into estimates like presidential approval . This pattern is not partisan . While 78 % of bogus respondents reported approving of President Donald Trump 's job performance , their approval rating of the 2010 health care law , also known as Obamacare , was even higher , at 84 % . Open-ended answers show that some respondents answer as though they are taking a market research survey ( e.g. , saying `` Great product '' regardless of the question ) .
A generation gap exists among the Japanese in their views of the Chinese . Older Japanese – those ages 50 and older – are more likely than Japanese ages 18 to 34 to see the Chinese as nationalistic . And older Japanese are less likely than the younger generation to believe that the Chinese are hardworking or modern .
Overall views of the presidential candidates are linked with views of their religiosity ; those who perceive a candidate as being very religious tend to express the most favorable overall views of each candidate , followed by those who perceive the candidate as being somewhat religious . Those who view candidates as being not too or not at all religious , on the other hand , are much less likely to express favorable views . This pattern holds for Republican and Democratic candidates alike . Among those who describe Giuliani as being very religious , 76 % express a favorable view of him , as do 73 % of those who view him as being somewhat religious . Among those who say Giuliani is not too or not at all religious , by contrast , just 43 % say they hold a favorable view . Similarly , 87 % of those who describe Clinton as very religious and 72 % of those who describe her as somewhat religious express a favorable view of the New York senator ; among those who say she is not too or not at all religious , just 22 % express a positive view .
The nation 's labor force of 154 million people includes an estimated 8.3 million unauthorized immigrants . The 5.4 % unauthorized-immigrant share of the labor force in 2008 rose rapidly from 4.3 % in 2003 , and has leveled off since 2007 . The estimate for 2008 is not significantly different from 2007 , so any assessment of recent trend is inconclusive because of the margin of error in these estimates .
Since 2002 , the percentage saying that suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilians are justified to defend Islam from its enemies has declined in most predominantly Muslim countries surveyed . For instance , in 2002 roughly three-in-four Lebanese Muslims ( 74 % ) said such attacks could often or sometimes be justified ; today , 32 % take this view .
China 's reputation among Americans had already fallen to an all-time low in Pew Research Center polling as of March , with roughly two-thirds viewing the country unfavorably . Now , a survey conducted April 29 to May 5 finds that Americans expect China 's international reputation will suffer because of how the country has handled the coronavirus outbreak , which originated within its borders . Americans are also critical of how China has handled the global pandemic and are skeptical of information from the Chinese government . Nearly all Americans are skeptical of information from the Chinese government about the coronavirus outbreak . More than eight-in-ten Americans ( 84 % ) distrust information from the Chinese government about the coronavirus outbreak , including nearly half ( 49 % ) who have no trust in it at all . This is more than twice as many as say they have no trust at all in the information coming from the World Health Organization ( 18 % ) , an organization whose handling of the virus is given mixed – and partisan – evaluations .
Support for increased spending on health care is much higher than it was in 2013 , but not as high as it was in the early 2000s . Today , about half ( 53 % ) say they would increase spending on healthcare . In 2013 , about four-in-ten ( 38 % ) said this . But in 2001 , fully seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) said spending for health care should be increased . Democrats continue to be much more likely to say spending should be increased than Republicans – about seven-in-ten Democrats ( 73 % ) say this , compared with just 27 % of Republicans . The numbers saying this in both parties are largely unchanged since 2017 , though both parties are more likely to say this than they were six years ago .
In 2005 , 8 % of men and 6 % of women used social media . Starting in 2009 , women started using social media at slightly higher rates than men , although this balance has shrunk yet again in recent years . Today , 68 % of women and 62 % of men report social media usage , a difference that is not statistically significant .
The new Pew Hispanic survey finds that most Latinos are broadly aware of these trends . Fully 54 % say Hispanics have been hurt more than other groups by the economic downturn of the past four years , while just 5 % say they have been hurt less . Some 38 % say Hispanics have been affected about as much as other groups .
A 25-nation Pew Global Attitudes survey conducted in May-June of this year highlighted the extent of Obama 's popularity , especially among many of America 's traditional allies in Western Europe . A remarkable 93 % of Germans said they had confidence in Obama to do the right thing in world affairs , as did 91 % in France and 86 % in Britain . This was a dramatic shift from 2008 , when only 14 % of Germans , 13 % of the French , and 16 % of the British had expressed confidence in then President George W. Bush . But Europeans were n't alone — more than 80 % in Canada , Japan and South Korea expressed confidence in Obama . Majorities in Brazil , Argentina and Mexico , where Bush had been overwhelmingly unpopular , also gave Obama positive marks . And even in countries where Bush had been relatively popular , such as India and Nigeria , Obama 's ratings were higher .
Views among Republicans and Republican leaners are more mixed : 52 % say they trust what Trump says more than previous presidents , compared with 33 % who trust what he says about the same as what previous presidents said and 14 % who say they trust what he says less . Conservative Republicans ( 62 % ) are much more likely than moderate and liberal Republicans ( 39 % ) to say they trust what Trump says more than previous presidents .
State governments receive more positive ratings than the federal government across a range of performance-related traits . In a separate survey , conducted April 19 - 22 among 1,004 adults , more people describe their state government as mostly honest ( 49 % ) rather than mostly corrupt ( 37 % ) . Evaluations of the federal government run in the opposite direction : 54 % say it is mostly corrupt , while just 31 % say it is mostly honest . More say state governments address people 's needs ( 42 % ) than say the same about the federal government ( 30 % ) . State governments are also seen as more efficient ( 38 % ) than the federal government ( 24 % ) . Just one-in-three ( 33 % ) say their state government is careful with people 's money , but that is nearly double the 17 % who say the federal government is careful with people 's money .
YouTube tends to recommend progressively longer and more popular content to users . This analysis illustrates how YouTube 's recommendation engine encourages users to engage with progressively longer content . The videos encountered in the first step of these random walks ( that is , the initial starting videos chosen at random ) collectively averaged 9 minutes and 31 seconds in length . But the first videos selected by the recommendation engine were nearly three minutes longer on average . Average video length then progressively increased for each subsequent recommendation . By the fifth and final step in these walks , these videos were on average nearly 15 minutes long .
U.S. Hispanics say relief from the threat of deportation is more important than a pathway to citizenship . Among U.S. Hispanics , a larger share — by 56 % to 35 % — said in a Sept.-Oct. 2014 survey that it is more important that unauthorized immigrants be able to live and work in the U.S. without threat of deportation than have a pathway to citizenship . Among Hispanic adults , immigrants ( 59 % ) are more likely than U.S.-born Hispanics ( 54 % ) to say that being able to live and work legally is more important . Among Latino registered voters , 51 % say deportation relief is more important than a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants . Meanwhile , four-in-ten Latino voters say the opposite .
Close to eight-in-ten say they heard at least a little last week about the 33 miners found alive but still trapped in Chile ; 37 % say they heard a lot about this , while 41 % heard a little . Another 21 % say they heard nothing at all . About seven-in-ten say they heard at least a little about the flooding in Pakistan and its aftermath ; 26 % heard a lot and 43 % heard a little about this . Three-in-ten say they heard nothing at all about the flooding . Just more than four-in-ten say they heard at least a little about the large rally in Washington on Saturday , Aug. 28 , organized by talk show host Glenn Beck ; 16 % say they heard a lot about the rally , while 26 % say they heard a little .
A majority of all Hispanic adults identify as Catholic and a large majority of Hispanic Catholics speak Spanish fluently , according to our 2013 National Survey of Latinos . Eight-in-ten Hispanic Catholics use mostly Spanish or are bilingual . In fact , they are more likely to be Spanish speakers than non-Catholic Hispanics ( 68 % ) .
Historically , and perhaps counterintuitively , older voters have been the least likely to vote in person on Election Day , according to Census Bureau estimates . In 2018 , for instance , 51.2 % of voters ages 65 and older said they had cast their ballot in person , compared with 59.6 % of all reported voters . The likeliest group to have queued up outside a school , firehouse or other polling place was 25- to 44-year-olds , 64.5 % of whom cast their ballots in person on Election Day .
Driven by WikiLeaks ' dissemination of those documents — which highlighted the difficult challenges faced by NATO forces — Afghanistan led the news for the week of July 26-Aug. 1 , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . Taken together , coverage of the WikiLeaks saga and the overall war effort combined to fill 19 % of the newshole . The immigration debate accounted for 13 % of last week 's coverage with the big news being a federal judge 's decision to block major elements of Arizona 's controversial new immigration law . That marks the second highest week of immigration coverage since PEJ began tracking it in January 2007 . ( The No . 1 week was 16 % from April 26-May 2 , right after the Arizona measure was signed into law . ) The announced departure of much-criticized Tony Hayward as CEO of BP helped fuel the continuing coverage of the Gulf oil spill , which filled 12 % of the newshole from July 26-Aug. 1 — the same level as the previous week .
Some 42 % of conservative Republicans think of scientists as politically liberal , up 14 percentage points from 28 % in 2009 . At the other end of the spectrum , liberal Democrats are also more likely than in 2009 to perceive scientists as generally liberal – 30 % do so , up from 21 % . The views among other party/ideology groups have stayed roughly the same over this time period , however .
Democrats glumly approach a new era . For the first time in a decade , Democrats are shut out of power in Washington . Today , they are about as pessimistic about the new year as Republicans were four years ago , after Obama 's reelection . Just 24 % of Democrats say 2017 will be better than 2016 . By contrast , victorious Republicans are optimistic : 83 % expect 2017 to be better than 2016 . The Democrats ' gloom also has affected their view of the economy : In December , just 15 % said they expect the nation 's economy to improve over the next year , down from 35 % last June . Republican economic optimism , by contrast , has soared : 75 % predicted the economy would get better , more than double the share who said this in June ( 29 % ) .
Fully 89 % of U.S.-born Latinos spoke English proficiently in 2013 , up from 72 % in 1980 . This gain is due in part to the growing share of U.S.-born Latinos who live in households where only English is spoken . In 2013 , 40 % of U.S.-born Latinos , or 12 million people , lived in these households , up from 32 % who did so in 1980 . The gain in English proficiency is also due to the rising share of U.S.-born Latinos who live in households where Spanish ( or another non-English language ) is spoken , and who say they speak English `` very well . '' Half ( 49 % ) of U.S.-born Latinos said this in 2013 , numbering 14.7 million , up from 40 % who said the same in 1980 . By contrast , the share of foreign-born Latinos who speak English proficiently is little changed since 1980 , even though the number that is English-proficient has grown . In 2013 , 34 % of foreign-born Latinos spoke English proficiently , numbering 6.5 million . In 1980 , that share was 31 % and numbered 1.3 million .
The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 7 - 12 , 2017 among 1,503 adults , finds the public holds mixed views on a border wall 's potential impact on illegal immigration . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) think a wall along the entire border with Mexico would lead to a `` major reduction '' in illegal immigration into the U.S. ; another 25 % think it would result in a `` minor reduction . '' A 43 % plurality thinks a border wall would not have much impact on illegal immigration into the U.S .
About six-in-ten adults ( 59 % ) say being white helps a person 's ability to get ahead in our country these days . Meanwhile , about half or more say being black or Hispanic puts people at a disadvantage . The public is more divided over the impact of being Asian or Native American on a person 's ability to get ahead .
The survey also finds about half of the public ( 52 % ) says that churches should keep out of politics , while 43 % say churches and other houses of worship should express their views on social and political questions . That is largely unchanged from 2008 , but over the previous decade ( from 1996 to 2006 ) , narrow majorities had expressed support for churches ' involvement in political matters .
The notion that a person can be Jewish even without observing the Sabbath or believing in God may be tied to the idea held by many Jews that being Jewish is more about ancestry or culture than about religion . Indeed , a plurality of Jews in Israel ( 55 % ) and a majority in the U.S. ( 62 % ) say this is the case for them personally , although 23 % in each country say their Jewish identity is about religion and ancestry/culture equally . About one-in-five Israeli Jews ( 22 % ) and a slightly smaller share of American Jews ( 15 % ) say being Jewish , to them , is primarily about religion . Orthodox Jews in both countries are particularly likely to take this position .
Immigrants account for most of the 4.6 million U.S. residents with origins in El Salvador , Guatemala and Honduras and are the main driver of the group 's growth . By contrast , two-thirds of Mexican Americans were born in the U.S. , and births to U.S. residents are the main contributor to the group 's population growth .
A majority of Hispanics say they most often identify themselves by their family 's country of origin ; just 24 % say they prefer a pan-ethnic label .
NATO is viewed favorably by people in the U.S. and many member countries . About six-in-ten Americans ( 62 % ) had a favorable opinion of NATO in a 2017 Pew Research Center survey of the U.S. and 11 other member countries . U.S. goodwill toward the alliance was significantly higher than in 2016 , when 53 % had a favorable view . Across all 12 NATO member countries included in the 2017 survey , a median of 61 % approved of the alliance , including a majority of respondents in every country except Spain , Greece and Turkey . In the Netherlands and Poland , roughly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) said they have a positive view of NATO . Favorable views of NATO increased in many of these European countries between 2016 and 2017 .
Majorities across nearly all major demographic groups say it makes the country stronger to acknowledge its historical flaws . Nearly two-thirds of White voters ( 68 % ) say acknowledging the United States ' historical flaws makes the country stronger . Larger majorities of Black ( 83 % ) and Hispanic ( 74 % ) voters say the same .
This association between politically mixed friendships and views of the other party is most notable with Republicans . Fully 62 % of Republicans with just a few or no Democratic friends feel very coldly toward Democrats . That compares with just 30 % of Republicans who have at least some Democratic friends . And among Republicans , those who have close Democratic friends hold fewer negative stereotypes of Democrats than those who do not . Differences among Democrats are not as stark , but nearly half of Democrats ( 49 % ) with few or no Republican friends feel very coldly toward Republicans , compared with 31 % of those with at least some friends from the other party .
When asked about the political views that major technology companies support , fewer than half of Americans ( 43 % ) say these companies support the views of liberals and conservatives equally . Instead , a slight majority feels these companies support the views of one side of the partisan spectrum over the other : 43 % of Americans say the companies support the views of liberals over conservatives , while 11 % say they support the views of conservatives over liberals . The view that major technology companies are more supportive of certain political views is particularly widespread among Republicans . Some 64 % of Republicans ( including Republican-leaning independents ) say major technology companies support the views of liberals over conservatives , and just 28 % say these companies support the views of liberals and conservatives equally . By contrast , 28 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say these companies support liberal views over conservative ones , and 53 % say both groups ' views are supported equally . Just 16 % of Democrats say the companies support the views of conservatives over liberals .
The other prominent example of social media users seeking to make a statement with their profile picture was over the LGBT rights issue , for which a rainbow-color filter was commonly used ; 21 % of those who changed their picture did so for this issue . Overall , 7 % of all social media users changed their picture in the case of Paris and 4 % for LGBT rights . In these two specific instances , Facebook provided a one-click tool to enable users to overlay the French flag and the rainbow filters over their profile pictures .
Amid rising coronavirus cases and widespread protests over racial injustice , President Donald Trump 's approval rating has dropped among a wide range of religious groups , including white evangelical Protestants – though they remain strongly supportive . Roughly seven-in-ten white evangelical Protestants ( 72 % ) say they approve of the way Trump is handling his job , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 16 to 22 . That is a 6 percentage point drop from 78 % recorded in April , in line with the 5-point drop during that period among U.S. adults overall . The share of white evangelicals who say they `` very strongly '' approve of Trump 's performance is now at 59 % , down 8 points from 67 % in April . ( Pew Research Center also asked the presidential approval question in March of this year , at which time Trump 's rating was similar to results obtained in April . ) While no other religious group is as supportive of Trump as white evangelical Protestants – and his rating has slipped among most Christian groups in this analysis in recent months – the president continues to garner support from half or more of other white Christians . More than half of white Protestants who do not identify as evangelical ( 56 % ) say they approve of the job Trump is doing , as do 54 % of white Catholics – and roughly six-in-ten voters in these groups say they would vote for him if the election were held today . Again , Biden does not instill confidence in many of these white Christians ; just one-in-five white Protestants who are not evangelical ( 19 % ) and white Catholics ( 21 % ) say that Biden would make a good or great president .
A technology user 's experience and ease with new technologies may play a role in his chosen solution as well as in his attitude during the course trying to solve the problem . Adults who admitted that they need help setting up or learning how to use a new device ( 48 % of internet and cell phone users ) are significantly more likely than those who are at ease setting up new device to seek help from family or friends in order to fix a broken device ( 21 % vs. 9 % ) . Those tech users who need help with new devices are also significantly more likely to feel confused ( 55 % vs. 29 % ) and discouraged ( 55 % vs. 44 % ) during the course of trying to solve the problem . The 52 % of tech users who are comfortable learning to use new devices on their own are more likely to be independent and confident device fixers . Some 35 % of this group , compared with 19 % of those who need help with new devices , fixed broken technology on their own ; and , 81 % of the more tech-savvy group said they felt confident during the course of fixing their devices , while 62 % of those who need with devices help felt confident . Both groups , however , are equally likely to contact user support for help and are equally likely to fix their broken devices in the end .
Unauthorized immigrants accounted for 3.5 % of the overall population and 26 % of the nation 's 43.6 million foreign-born residents in 2014 . The U.S. foreign-born population also included 19 million naturalized citizens , 11.7 million lawful permanent residents and 1.7 million lawful residents with temporary status ( such as students , diplomats and so-called `` guest workers '' in the technology sector ) . In total , immigrants represented 13.6 % of the U.S. population in 2014 .
Among cohabiters who are not currently engaged , half of those with a bachelor 's degree or more education and 43 % of those with some college experience say they saw moving in with their partner as step toward marriage . Smaller shares of those with a high school diploma or less education ( 28 % ) say the same .
Indeed , the more devices someone owns , the more likely they are to use Twitter or another service to update their status . Fully 39 % of internet users with four or more internet-connected devices ( such as a laptop , cell phone , game console , or Kindle ) use Twitter , compared to 28 % of internet users with three devices , 19 % of internet users with two devices , and 10 % of internet users with one device .
The aftermath of the 22-day military conflict between Israel and Hamas drew considerable public interest . Three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they followed news about conditions in the Gaza Strip very closely last week after the announcement of a cease fire . Public interest in this story was roughly equal to interest in the second week in January – following the start of the Israeli military 's ground invasion – when 34 % of the public followed the conflict very closely . The inauguration and the financial crisis overshadowed Gaza in terms of public interest and media coverage . Still , one-in-ten listed the conflict between Israel and Hamas as the story they followed more closely than any other . For its part , the national news media devoted 4 % of all coverage to this subject . In economic news , the announcement of thousands of layoffs at several major American companies , including Microsoft , Intel and United Airlines , was very closely followed by a third ( 34 % ) of the American public . Attention to this news was comparable across gender , education levels and party affiliation . Some 6 % cite the job cuts as the story they followed most closely last week . According to PEJ , the national media devoted 2 % of the overall newshole to stories about unemployment and jobs . Reports that Hillary Clinton was confirmed by the U.S. Senate and assumed the role of secretary of state attracted the very close attention of one-in-four Americans ( 24 % ) . Clinton 's transition from the Senate to the new administration was the most closely followed story of the week for just 1 % of the public .
Concern about the deficit tends to rise with age . Among Americans 65 and older , 58 % said the deficit is a very big problem , compared with 52 % of 50- to 64-year-olds , 43 % of 30- to 49-year-olds and 33 % of 18- to 29-year-olds . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents were somewhat more likely to call the deficit a very big problem : 49 % did so , compared with 45 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . Viewed through ideology , self-described liberal Democrats were considerably less likely to call the deficit a very big problem ( 38 % ) than conservative Republicans ( 51 % ) , conservative and moderate Democrats ( 50 % ) or moderate and liberal Republicans ( 47 % ) .
In a Pew Research Center survey conducted last month , Pope Francis enjoyed a 90 % favorability rating among U.S. Catholics . In addition , Francis now is rated favorably by 70 % of all Americans , up from 57 % in March 2013 . Francis is popular even among those without a religious affiliation . Fully two-thirds of religious `` nones '' ( 68 % ) in the most recent Pew Research poll say they view the current pontiff favorably , up from just 39 % in March 2013 . Francis also is liked by American Protestants . According to the most recent Pew Research poll , 74 % of white mainline Protestants and 60 % of white evangelical Protestants say they view him favorably .
Furthermore , Americans who believe gun laws should be less strict are more likely to contact public officials on the issue than those who think gun laws should be stricter or are about right ( 22 % have ever done so , compared with 15 % of those who favor stricter laws and 10 % of those who think laws are about right ) . Among gun owners , 19 % of those who want less strict laws have contacted a public official in the past year , compared with 9 % of those who want stricter laws .
As with his overall job rating , Trump engenders strong feelings on taxes : 42 % are `` not at all confident '' that he can make wise decisions on taxes , which is much higher than the shares expressing no confidence in Republican leaders ( 31 % ) or Democratic leaders ( 24 % ) . On the other hand , far more say they are `` very confident '' in Trump ( 22 % ) than say that about GOP leaders ( 9 % ) or Democratic leaders ( 11 % ) .
A near-record 13.9 % of the U.S. population today is foreign born , with 45 million immigrants residing here . This compares with 5 % in 1965 , when the immigration law was changed . The current share of the population that is foreign born is only slightly below the record 14.8 % that was seen during the waves of European-dominated immigration in the late 1800s and early 1900s . This foreign-born share is projected to rise to 17.7 % in 2065 as immigration continues to drive U.S. population growth .
While more than 46 million Americans already have cast their votes this year , 80 million or so more will be voting on Election Day itself . If you 're one of them , there 's a good chance you 'll use one of two basic forms of voting technology to record your choices : optical-scan ballots , in which voters fill in bubbles , complete arrows or make other machine-readable marks on paper ballots ; or direct-recording electronic ( DRE ) devices , such as touch screens , that record votes in computer memory . While those are the two dominant forms of in-person voting , they are n't the only ones in use . Around 5 % of registered voters live in places that conduct elections entirely by mail – the states of Colorado , Oregon and Washington , more than half of the counties in North Dakota , 10 counties in Utah and two in California . And in more than 1,800 small counties , cities and towns – mostly in New England , the Midwest and the intermountain West – more than a million voters still use paper ballots that are counted by hand . Beyond the rise of early , absentee and mail voting , the means by which Americans vote on Election Day have changed dramatically over the past generation . In 1980 , when Ronald Reagan defeated Jimmy Carter , the two most common voting systems nationwide were punch-card devices and `` lever machines '' – self-contained voting booths in which voters flipped levers to indicate their preferences , with the totals automatically recorded on a built-in mechanical register when the voter opened the privacy curtain to exit the booth . But the lever machines , which were first invented in the 1890s , were bulky and expensive to maintain and repair , and they were phased out over the next two decades . ( New York State was the last to use them regularly , officially retiring them in 2010 , though they 've made a handful of guest appearances since . ) Punch cards hung on throughout the 1990s but gradually lost ground to optical-scan and electronic systems – a decline that accelerated sharply after the 2000 Florida election recount debacle that brought the term `` hanging chad '' to brief prominence .
About half of first marriages in the U.S. are likely to survive at least 20 years , according to government estimates . But for one demographic group , marriages last longer than most : College-educated women have an almost eight-in-ten chance of still being married after two decades . Researchers at the National Center for Health Statistics estimate that 78 % of college-educated women who married for the first time between 2006 and 2010 could expect their marriages to last at least 20 years . But among women who have a high school education or less , the share is only 40 % . The probability of a lasting first marriage is derived from marital history data from the National Survey of Family Growth , a nationally representative sample of women and men who were ages 15 to 44 between 2006 and 2010 . Estimates are based on an approach similar to that used to determine life expectancy and assume that marriage patterns in the future will follow patterns today . The findings refer only to opposite-sex marriages ; the sample size was too small to analyze same-sex marriages .
When looking at the data by country , a larger share of Honduran unaccompanied minors are younger than 12 , compared with those from other countries . More than one-in-four ( 27 % ) apprehended Honduran children were ages 12 and under in fiscal year 2014 , up from 20 % the previous year . El Salvador ranks second in the share of minors apprehended at the border who are 12 years and younger , with the share increasing from 17 % to 22 % over the same time period . Among those from Guatemala , the share of minors apprehended at the border who are ages 12 and under has doubled to 10 % . By contrast , just 3 % of apprehensions of Mexican minors were young children during both fiscal years . Mexico 's apprehensions in fiscal year 2014 so far have not yet exceeded the previous year .
Two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) say that civilians need to have the power to sue police officers to hold them accountable for misconduct and excessive use of force , even if that makes the officers ' jobs more difficult . Just 32 % say that , in order for police officers to do their jobs effectively , they need to be shielded from such lawsuits . About eight-in-ten Black adults ( 86 % ) favor permitting citizens to sue police officers to hold them accountable for misconduct , as do 75 % of Hispanic adults and 60 % of white adults . There also are sizable partisan differences in views of qualified immunity , reflecting the divisions over the issue in Congress . A majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 84 % ) say citizens need the power to sue police officers for the use of excessive force and misconduct , compared with 45 % of Republicans and Republican leaners .
Currently , 69 % of Americans say they favor allowing churches and other houses of worship , along with other organizations , to apply for government funding to provide social services such as job training or drug treatment counseling . Just 25 % oppose allowing faith-based groups to seek government funding to help the needy .
News about health care reform and the nation 's economy continues to dominate the public 's attention . Almost three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say health care reform is the story they followed most closely last week , while 16 % say they followed economic news most closely . Asked to rate how closely they followed these stories , 41 % say they followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely , while 40 % say the same about the debate over health care reform .
The trend toward increased support for gay marriage is evident across all regions . In each , the percentage that currently favors allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally is far higher than it was a decade ago . Attitudes toward gay marriage in the South are comparable to where the country as a whole was a decade ago . In the states ranging from Kentucky to Texas , 35 % now support same-sex marriage . That is comparable to the 33 % that said this nationwide in 2003 . At the same time , the proportion nationwide that currently favors allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally matches the percentage that said this in New England a decade ago ( both 48 % ) .
Both the public and the media focused last week on the increasing violence in Libya , but Americans also closely tracked news about a related concern – the impact the crisis in the Middle East is having on oil prices at home . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they followed news about the rising price of oil more closely than any other major story , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Feb. 24 - 27 among 1,009 adults . Comparable numbers say they most closely followed news about the situation in Libya ( 19 % ) or the budget disputes in Wisconsin and other states between state governments and public employee unions ( 18 % ) .
Over half ( 54 % ) of the Americans who are most likely to sign up for health coverage through the new health care exchanges —the uninsured and those who buy their own coverage — would opt for a plan that costs less even if the coverage is narrower , according to a new Kaiser Health Tracking poll released today . Broader plans at a higher cost would be the choice of 34 % . The public , taken as a whole , leans the other way , with 51 % saying they prefer a plan that costs more money but provides a broader network of providers while 37 % would choose a lower-cost option with less choice . Americans who have employer-provided coverage prefer higher-cost/broader network plans by an even larger margin : 55 % to 34 % . But Kaiser found some wiggle room in the opinions of those in the higher or lower cost camps . When the 37 % of the overall public who said they preferred the lower cost plans were asked if they would still feel the same if they found out they would not be able to visit the doctors or hospitals they usually use , the percentage saying they would stick with that option fell to 23 % . On the flip side of the question , when the Americans who said they preferred the more expensive , broader plans were told they could save about 25 % on health care costs by going for narrower plans , the share of those choosing the more costly option dropped from 51 % to 37 % .
Democrats now hold a 12-point lead ( 52 % to 40 % ) in leaned party identification among those with at least a college degree , up from just a four point gap seen as recently as 2010 ( 48 % to 44 % ) . Much of this advantage has come among adults with post-graduate experience ; currently , 56 % lean Democratic while just 36 % lean Republican . Among those who have received a college degree but have no post-graduate experience , the gap is much narrower : 48 % identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , while 43 % affiliate with the GOP or lean Republican . Back to top
Even though more Hispanics are getting a postsecondary education than ever before , Hispanics still lag other groups in obtaining a four-year degree . As of 2014 , among Hispanics ages 25 to 29 , just 15 % of Hispanics have a bachelor 's degree or higher . By comparison , among the same age group , about 41 % of whites have a bachelor 's degree or higher ( as do 22 % of blacks and 63 % of Asians ) . This gap is due in part to the fact that Hispanics are less likely than some other groups to enroll in a four-year college , attend an academically selective college and enroll full-time .
The response on Twitter to George Zimmerman 's acquittal in the killing of Trayvon Martin was almost equally divided between sharing news about the verdict and weighing in on it . And among those offering opinions about the outcome , their conclusion was very different from the jurors ' _ . According to a new Pew Research Center analysis of nearly 5 million tweets about the case in the first 26 hours after the verdict , 39 % of the statements on Twitter shared news without any opinion . That demonstrates the degree to which the social media platform functions as a vehicle for disseminating breaking news by both citizens and news organizations . But of the 38 % of the statements offering clear views about the result , those expressing anger or opposition to the verdict ( 31 % ) outnumbered those in support of the acquittal ( 7 % ) by more than 4:1 . For determining the tone of the conversation on Twitter , we employed methods that combine Pew Research 's content analysis rules with computer coding software developed by Crimson Hexagon . Crimson Hexagon identifies statistical patterns in words used on Twitter and includes all public Twitter posts . The sentiments decrying the verdict were often emotional and frequently evoked a racial subtext , according to an analysis of the Twitter response to the trial outcome from 10 p.m. July 13 to midnight on July 14 . Among that group , the largest component ( 15 % of the Twitter reaction ) was criticism of the criminal justice system , including charges that it is biased against African Americans . Another 14 % accused Zimmerman of wrong-doing , such as deliberately profiling Martin . And 2 % spoke of Trayvon Martin as an innocent victim .
Education , jobs and the economy , and health care are the top issues for Hispanic registered voters . Some 55 % of registered voters say the issue of education is extremely important to them , followed by 54 % who cite jobs and the economy , and 50 % who cite health care . These three top issues are the same as those cited by Hispanic registered voters in December 2011 ( Lopez , Gonzalez-Barrera and Motel , 2011 ) . About a third ( 34 % ) of Hispanic registered voters say immigration is extremely important to them personally ; similar shares say the same about the federal budget deficit ( 36 % ) and taxes ( 33 % ) .
As ratings for China have declined , so too has confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping . Roughly seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) say they do not have confidence in Xi to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs – a high since the Center first asked the question . Just 22 % say they have faith in the Chinese leader , down 15 percentage points since last year .
Furthermore , the declining unemployment rate has had hardly any impact on the public 's impression of job availability . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) say that job opportunities where they live are difficult to find ; just 29 % say there are plenty of jobs available in their community .
Republicans ' views of the Justice Department have become more positive over this time period : 61 % of Republicans now say they view the DOJ favorably , up from 47 % in January 2017 .
But , recent gains notwithstanding , the median income of middle-class households in 2016 was about the same as in 2000 , a reflection of the lingering effects of the Great Recession and an earlier recession in 2001 . The median income of lower-income households in 2016 ( $ 25,624 ) was less than in 2000 ( $ 26,923 ) . Only the incomes of upper-income households increased from 2000 to 2016 , from $ 183,680 to $ 187,872 .
With a deadline fast approaching and talk of serious economic consequences without congressional action , the standoff in Washington over raising the debt limit was the top story last week for both the public and the news media . Currently , 38 % say they followed news about the debt limit debate very closely , little different from the 34 % that said this one week earlier according to the latest Weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted July 21 - 24 among 999 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The survey was conducted before the prime-time speeches on July 25 by President Obama and House Speaker John Boehner . About a quarter ( 27 % ) cited the deficit and debt talks as their most closely followed story this week , while 20 % cited news about the economy and 18 % mentioned the intense heat wave sweeping much of the nation . The stalemate over raising the debt ceiling was more dominant in terms of news coverage , accounting for 29 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . The next most heavily covered story , at 17 % of all coverage , was the British press scandal , which has attracted little public interest .
These differences also extend to more specific incidents of racial discrimination . For example , blacks who have attended college are more likely than those who have not to say they have been met with suspicion or that someone has questioned their intelligence . Some 55 % of blacks with at least some college education say that in the past 12 months someone has acted as if they were suspicious of them because of their race or ethnicity , while a similar share ( 52 % ) say people have treated them as if they were n't smart . Among blacks with a high school diploma or less , those shares are lower , 38 % and 37 % respectively .
About half of Latino registered voters ( 54 % ) continue to say the Democratic Party is more concerned for Latinos than the Republican Party ; just 11 % say the GOP has greater concern , while 28 % say there is no difference between the parties . Democrats held a similar advantage four years ago , when by 61 % to 10 % , more Latino voters viewed Democrats as more concerned about Latinos .
But while Trump 's election may have been a turning point for U.S. Muslims in some ways , the group 's political views have been consistent by other measures . For instance , Muslim Americans have strongly favored the Democratic Party for at least a decade . Two-thirds of Muslims ( 66 % ) now identify with or lean toward the Democrats , similar to the share who said this in both 2011 ( 70 % ) and 2007 ( 63 % ) .
Those who have a favorable opinion of populist parties in Germany and Sweden , for example , are only slightly less likely than those with unfavorable views to be upbeat about the economy . Roughly three-quarters ( 77 % ) of those who have a favorable opinion of the populist Alternative for Germany party ( AfD ) say their country 's economic situation is good ; that compares with 87 % among other Germans . Similarly , three-quarters of those with a positive view of the populist Sweden Democrats party say their country 's economic situation is good , compared with 91 % among other Swedes .
Most Americans do not expect to see `` significant progress reducing the federal budget deficit '' over the next five years or so : 30 % say significant progress will be made reducing the deficit , 66 % say there will not be significant progress . Pessimism about making progress on the deficit is significantly higher than in surveys conducted from 2010 through 2012 . In December 2012 , 44 % expected the country to make significant progress reducing the deficit in the following years .
About as many have a favorable as unfavorable opinion of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ( 31 % vs. 28 % ) . Another 28 % volunteer that they have not heard of Netanyahu and 13 % ca n't rate or refused . Netanyahu 's favorable rating has slipped seven points since February ( from 38 % ) , but there has been almost no change in unfavorable ratings ( 27 % then , 28 % now ) . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say they have never heard of Netanyahu or express no opinion of him , compared with 35 % last month . Netanyahu 's favorability is significantly down among Democrats : 19 % are favorable , 39 % are unfavorable and 41 % have no opinion ( compared with 28 % favorable , 35 % unfavorable and 37 % no opinion last month ) . Republicans remain favorable toward the Israeli prime minister by more than two-to-one ( 47 % favorable , 16 % unfavorable , 36 % no opinion ) . More Republicans offered an opinion last month , though the balance of opinion was about the same ( 53 % favorable , 21 % unfavorable , 26 % no opinion ) .
An estimated 34.6 million Hispanics of Mexican origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Mexicans are the largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for nearly two-thirds ( 64.1 % ) of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013.1 Since 1980 , the Mexican-origin population has almost quadrupled , growing from 8.8 million to 34.6 million over the period . At the same time , the foreign-born population of Mexican origin living in the U.S. grew more than 400 % , up from 2.2 million in 1980 to 11.5 million in 2013 .
As an industry , political organizations – comprising political action committees ( PACs ) and campaign organizations , among other political clubs – take their cues not from stock markets , but from the quadrennial election cycle . They emerge like pop-up shops ahead of Election Day , and are hastily disassembled shortly thereafter .
While a dislike of the candidates or issues was the most frequently cited reason for not voting , other top reasons included a lack of interest or a feeling that their vote would n't make a difference ( 15 % ) , being too busy or having a conflicting schedule ( 14 % ) , having an illness or disability ( 12 % ) and being out of town or away from home ( 8 % ) . Another 11 % gave other reasons .
Republicans remain more likely than Democrats to say the deficit is a very serious problem : Today , 60 % of Republicans , 57 % of independents and 46 % of Democrats say the deficit is a very serious problem . While a similar partisan gap was evident throughout 2010 and 2011 , Democrats were more likely than Republicans to view the deficit as a serious problem for the country in surveys conducted from 2003 through 2004 ( during the George W. Bush administration ) .
South Africans appear to recognize the competing economic influence of the two world powers – and to welcome ties with both countries . According to a new Pew Research Center poll , about seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) say the U.S. has a great deal or fair amount of influence on economic conditions in South Africa ; 71 % say the same about China . Among those who believe the U.S. and China have a significant economic impact on their country , majorities say both nations ' influence is a good thing for South Africa : 67 % for the U.S. and 58 % for China .
The Fox News audience skews more ideological than that of its two main competitors . Fully 60 % of Fox News viewers describe themselves as conservative , compared with 23 % who say they are moderate and 10 % who are liberal , according to a 2012 survey by the Pew Research Center . By contrast , the ideological makeup of CNN viewers ( 32 % conservative , 30 % moderate , 30 % liberal ) and MSNBC viewers ( 32 % conservative , 23 % moderate , 36 % liberal ) is far more mixed .
News reports about the state of the economy elicit a variety of emotions from the public . Nearly half of Americans ( 49 % ) say they feel angry when seeing or hearing reports about the economy , while 43 % say they feel scared . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say they feel confused by economic news and about as many report feeling depressed ( 35 % ) . Just 30 % say they feel optimistic when they see or hear news reports about the economy , while 69 % say they do not feel optimistic .
In 2012 , according to analysis by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , more than 30 % of student-loan borrowers who moved into their repayment cycles were delinquent ( that is , they 're 90 days or more behind in their payments ) , up from 20 % just eight years earlier . That `` effective delinquency rate , '' which excludes people who are n't yet on the hook to start repaying their loans , has risen among all age groups but is highest among borrowers younger than 30 : 35 % of that subgroup was delinquent in 2012 .
It 's true that corporations are funding a smaller share of overall government operations than they used to . In fiscal 2015 , the federal government collected $ 343.8 billion from corporate income taxes , or 10.6 % of its total revenue . Back in the 1950s , corporate income tax generated between a quarter and a third of federal revenues ( though payroll taxes have grown considerably over that period ) .
Rather , most Catholics say they look inward for guidance in their lives . Roughly three-quarters of U.S. Catholics ( 73 % ) say they rely `` a great deal '' on their own conscience when facing difficult moral problems , compared with 21 % who look to the Catholic Church 's teachings , 15 % who turn to the Bible and 11 % who say they rely a great deal on the pope .
Six-in-ten evangelical Protestants ( 61 % ) say they are `` very satisfied '' with the sermons they hear , almost twice as many as those who say they 're `` somewhat satisfied '' ( 32 % ) . Among Catholics , only about a third ( 32 % ) say they 're `` very satisfied , '' while roughly half ( 52 % ) say they are `` somewhat satisfied . '' Catholics also have a higher share of respondents who say they 're `` not too '' or `` not at all '' satisfied ( 15 % vs. 7 % for Protestants ) .
As Republican and Democratic leaders in Congress battle over President Barack Obama 's economic stimulus package , the latest survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press finds the Democratic Party with a vast favorability advantage over the GOP . More than six-in-ten Americans ( 62 % ) say they have a positive opinion of the Democratic Party , compared with 40 % who say they have a favorable opinion of the Republican Party . The survey , conducted Jan. 7 - 11 among 1,503 adults on cell phones and landlines , finds that the Democratic Party is currently seen more favorably than the Republican Party among nearly every demographic group . Even among white evangelical Protestants , who are some of the most loyal supporters of the Republican Party , opinions about the two parties are about even . Fully half of white evangelicals have a favorable opinion of the Democratic Party and about the same number ( 48 % ) say they have a positive opinion of the GOP . A solid majority of Republicans continues to give their own party high marks ; nearly three-quarters ( 74 % ) say they have a positive view of the Republican Party . Yet , this is considerably smaller than the share of Democrats who express favorable opinions of the Democratic Party ( 90 % ) . Nearly six-in-ten independents ( 58 % ) express positive opinions of the Democratic Party , compared with 38 % who say they have a favorable impression of the Republican Party .
In Pew Research Center 's post-election survey , conducted Nov. 10 - 14 , more than half of Trump supporters ( 55 % ) said they have confidence in the new president to `` do the right thing '' when it comes to illegal immigration . Trump scored higher among his supporters on two other issues ( the economy and the threat of terrorism ) , and about the same on a third ( health care ) .
And an overwhelming majority of those who view more assistance as necessary think Congress and the president should act on it as soon as possible , rather than waiting until after the presidential inauguration in January . About two-thirds of Americans ( 68 % ) say a new aid package is necessary and that it be acted upon by the president and current Congress .
When it comes to the benefits , adults in these countries see digital connectivity enhancing people 's access to political information and facilitating engagement with their domestic politics . Majorities in each country say access to the internet , mobile phones and social media has made people more informed about current events , and majorities in most countries believe social media have increased ordinary people 's ability to have a meaningful voice in the political process . Additionally , half or more in seven of these 11 countries say technology has made people more accepting of those who have different views than they do . Similarly , the widespread view that technology has made people more informed about current events is often paired with worries that these tools might make people vulnerable : Majorities in 10 of these countries feel technology has made it easier to manipulate people with rumors and false information . Further , a recent report by the Center found that a median of 64 % across these 11 countries say people should be very concerned about exposure to false or incorrect information when using their phones .
Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 79 % ) say the shutdown is a `` very serious problem '' ; fewer than half as many Republicans and Republican leaners ( 35 % ) say the same .
People are also generally in favor of using human gene editing to reduce the risk of future health problems from occurring . A median of 60 % say it is appropriate to use gene editing to reduce the risk of a serious disease a baby could develop over their lifetime , while 33 % see this as a misuse of technology . About three-quarters of adults are positive about this application in Spain ( 77 % ) , as are roughly seven-in-ten in India and Taiwan . Opinion is more narrowly divided in Germany , where 49 % say this is appropriate while 45 % say it is misusing technology . And in Japan , opinion divides 47 % appropriate to 41 % misusing technology .
From July 26-Aug. 1 , the president and his administration registered as lead newsmaker in 8 % of the week 's stories , up from 5 % the previous week . ( To be a lead newsmaker , a figure must register in at least 50 % of a story . ) The No . 2 newsmaker was Democratic Rep. Charles Rangel who figured in 4 % of the stories after the House Ethics Committee charged the former Ways and Means Committee chair with 13 counts of ethics violations . He was followed by another figure whose recent headlines have n't been kind , departing BP boss Tony Hayward ( 3 % ) . Robert Dudley , the man tapped to replace Hayward at BP was the fourth-leading newsmaker , at 2 % of the stories . And coming in as No . 5 was another New York Democratic congressman , Anthony Weiner ( also 2 % ) , who erupted in an attention-getting outburst against Republicans during a debate over a bill that would provide money to pay health costs for 9/11 first responders . Even in a time of increasingly angry political rhetoric , the congressman 's behavior stood out . `` Weiner Goes Ballistic on the House Floor , '' declared the headline on the Forbes website .
Views on this question also vary by education . About half of college graduates ( 52 % ) say it 's better for children to have a parent staying home , compared with 59 % of those with some college experience and 64 % of those with a high school education or less .
Yet it remains the case that the differences between the two parties are starker than those within the two parties . Across 30 political values – encompassing attitudes about guns , race , immigration , foreign policy and other realms – the average partisan gap is 39 percentage points . Across all 30 political values , the differences between Republicans and Democrats dwarf all other differences by demographics or other factors . The 39-point average gap is more than twice the difference between white and nonwhite adults ( 17 percentage points ) ; people who regularly attend religious services and those who do not ( 14 points ) ; college graduates and those who have not completed college ( 10 points ) ; younger and older adults ( also 10 points ) ; and men and women ( 6 points ) .
Currently , 55 % of Democrats say reducing the budget deficit should be a top priority , compared with 72 % of Republicans . The reverse was true at the start of George W. Bush 's second term : 64 % of Democrats , but 48 % of Republicans , said the deficit was a top priority in 2005 .
The June survey also shows the public is unlikely to be satisfied with the Supreme Court 's ruling – no matter what the court decides . Whether the Court decides to uphold the entire law , overturn the entire law , or reject the `` individual mandate '' while allowing the rest of the law to remain in place , fewer than half of Americans say they would be happy with the decision .
An increasing share of the public believes that Islam is more likely than other religions to encourage violence among its believers , reaching a high since 2002 . Currently , 50 % say Islam encourages violence more than other religions , up from 43 % in July and 38 % in February . Republicans continue to be more likely than Democrats to say Islam encourages violence more than other religions . But increasing shares of both parties express this view . Among Republicans , two-thirds ( 67 % ) say Islam is more likely to encourage violence — up 13 points since February ; just 23 % say Islam does not encourage violence more than others . About four-in-ten Democrats ( 42 % ) say Islam is more likely to encourage violence — up 14 points — while 48 % say it is not more likely .
The number of those who say they download music online remains well below the peak levels that we tracked in the spring of 2003 , but there was some growth in those who reported music downloading in our February survey . The comScore data also shows growth since last November in usage of some of the smaller file-sharing applications , such as iMesh , BitTorrent , and eMule .
The fact that nearly all oil workers are men has received much attention . Indeed , recent census figures show that North Dakota led the nation in population growth over the past five years , at 12 % , and men have accounted for two-thirds of it . From 2009 to 2013 , the number of men in North Dakota increased by 14 % ( 46,000 ) , compared with a 9 % increase among women ( 30,000 ) . It made us wonder : How does North Dakota 's `` man rush '' compare with previous population booms ? We thought back to the late 1800s with the silver rush in Colorado and Alaska 's oil boom in the 1970s , and then examined census data from those periods . It turns out that North Dakota 's population boom is not nearly as large as these two other moments in history . ( No data were available for the 1849 California gold rush . ) From 1870 to 1880 , Colorado 's population quintupled to 195,000 thanks in part to a silver rush ( Colorado became a state in 1876 ) . During this period , the state saw a 448 % increase ( 106,000 ) in the number of men . Women also arrived in droves , but their population grew at a slower pace—a 324 % increase ( 49,000 ) . By 1880 , men made up 67 % of Colorado 's population . However , once the silver rush had subsided by 1900 , the male share of the population dropped to 55 % .
The typical ( median ) American owned two of the above devices and 17 % said they only owned one of these devices . Some 77 % of single-device owners said their one device was a cell phone . Another 17 % of those with one device said it was a desktop , while 6 % said it was a laptop . Fewer than 1 % of these one-device owners said their only device was an e-reader , and none said that their one device was a tablet computer .
Americans closely tracked the final stages of the long-running debate over health care reform legislation last week as the story dominated media coverage . More than half ( 53 % ) of the public says the debate was the story they followed most closely , while the story was the focus of 37 % of news coverage . Half of Americans report talking about the health care reform news with friends .
Many parents know the passwords to their teen 's various accounts and devices , but knowing your teen 's log-in information is not universal . Nearly half ( 48 % ) of parents say they know the password to their teen 's email account while 43 % are privy to their teen 's cellphone password . Fewer parents – 35 % – say they know the password to at least one of their teen 's social media accounts .
The key Senate vote that halted gun control legislation last week is drawing a mixed reaction from the American public : 47 % express negative feelings about the vote while 39 % have a positive reaction to the Senate 's rejection of gun control legislation that included background checks on gun purchases . Overall , 15 % say they are angry this legislation was voted down and 32 % say they are disappointed . On the other side , 20 % say are very happy the legislation was blocked , while 19 % say they are relieved .
Combined advertiser expenditures for the evening broadcast news programs , ABC 's World News Tonight , CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News , were $ 518 million in 2018 , a decline of 6 % compared with 2017 , according to estimates from Kantar Media . ( This data reflects the amount of money paid by advertisers , rather than the amount of revenue actually earned by networks . )
After shrinking in 2009 , during the global recession , Mexico 's economy rebounded impressively in 2010 – growing at its fastest rate in a decade . Still , an overwhelming majority of Mexicans remain dissatisfied with economic conditions and with their nation 's direction overall . Roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) say they are unhappy with the way things are going in their country , little changed from assessments in 2009 and 2010 . Dissatisfaction with the country 's direction is common across the different regions of Mexico and cuts across income and educational levels .
A majority of Americans ( 54 % ) say `` the U.S. should take into account the interests of its allies even if it means making compromises with them , '' while 40 % say `` the U.S. should follow its own national interests even when its allies strongly disagree . '' A wide partisan gap remains on how accommodating the U.S. should be toward its allies . A strong majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 69 % ) say the U.S. should compromise with allies . About half as many Republicans and Republican leaners ( 35 % ) say the same .
Americans and Germans have different views about what the most important aspect of the U.S.-German relationship is . Roughly a third of Americans say the most important aspects of the relationship – from a list of three options – are security and defense ties ( 34 % ) and economic and trade ties ( 33 % ) . About one-in-five ( 21 % ) name shared democratic values as the pre-eminent aspect of the relationship . Most Germans , by contrast , say economic connections are the most critical ( 45 % ) , with about a third saying democratic values are the keystone of the transatlantic relationship ( 35 % ) . Only 16 % of Germans cite defense ties .
Over the past two years , Americans have become more likely to say it is `` stressful and frustrating '' to have political conversations with those they disagree with . The change in opinions has come largely among Democrats : 57 % now say that talking about politics with people they disagree with is stressful and frustrating , up from 45 % two years ago .
While Chicago 's murder rate is far from the highest in the nation , it has led the U.S. in murder totals each year since 2012 . Since 1985 , only two other cities have held this distinction : New York and Los Angeles , which are also the only two American cities with larger populations than Chicago 's . Chicago 's annual murder total reached its highest level in two decades in 2016 ( 765 murders ) , but New York , Los Angeles and several other big cities have enjoyed long-term declines . No decrease has been more dramatic than New York 's : The 292 murders that took place in the Big Apple in 2017 were down from a peak of 2,245 in 1990 . In fact , New York 's murder rate – 3.4 homicides per 100,000 people – is now below the national average .
A spring 2008 survey by the Pew Research Center 's Pew Global Attitudes Project finds 46 % of the Spanish rating Jews unfavorably . More than a third of Russians ( 34 % ) and Poles ( 36 % ) echo this view . Somewhat fewer , but still significant numbers of the Germans ( 25 % ) and French ( 20 % ) interviewed also express negative opinions of Jews . These percentages are all higher than obtained in comparable Pew surveys taken in recent years . In a number of countries , the increase has been especially notable between 2006 and 2008 . Great Britain stands out as the only European country included in the survey where there has not been a substantial increase in anti-Semitic attitudes . Just 9 % of the British rate Jews unfavorably , which is largely unchanged from recent years . And relatively small percentages in both Australia ( 11 % ) and the United States ( 7 % ) continue to view Jews unfavorably .
A large majority of Americans ( 83 % ) say the choice of the next Supreme Court justice is either very or somewhat important to them personally , with 63 % saying it is very important . Just 16 % say it is not too important or not at all important . Similar majorities of Republicans and Republican leaners and Democrats and Democratic leaners say the choice is very important to them personally ( 66 % and 65 % , respectively ) .
Mexico has apprehended and deported more migrants within its borders so far this fiscal year than at the same point in fiscal 2018 , though the totals remain well below levels recorded in other recent years , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from Mexico 's office for population and immigration statistics . Mexican authorities apprehended nearly 92,000 migrants in the first seven months of fiscal 2019 , up 32 % from the same period the previous year . Still , this year 's total remains below the 141,000 apprehensions made during the same period in fiscal 2006 ( when the U.S. also experienced a surge of non-Mexican immigrant apprehensions at the southern border ) . It 's also far below the number of southern border apprehensions made by the U.S. government during the first seven months of fiscal 2019 .
With a Florida judge clearing the way for George Zimmerman to get out of jail on bail , developments in the case against the man charged in the killing of Trayvon Martin topped Americans ' news interest last week . About a quarter of the public ( 26 % ) says they followed developments in the case more closely than any other news , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted April 19 - 22 among 1,004 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The controversy over the shooting of Martin , an unarmed African American teenager , has now been the public 's top story for five straight weeks . Coverage , though , dropped to 7 % of the newshole from 17 % the previous week , when Zimmerman was arrested and charged with second degree murder , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . The 2012 presidential campaign received the most coverage last week , accounting for 17 % of the newshole . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say they followed news about the emerging scandal more closely than any other news , ranking it behind developments in the Trayvon Martin case ( 26 % most closely ) , the economy ( 15 % ) and the presidential campaign ( 13 % ) among the week 's top stories .
White evangelical Protestants have become one of the most important parts of the Republican Party 's electoral base , making up over one-third of those who identify with the GOP and vote for its candidates . The party 's political fortunes depend , in large part , on retaining the solid support of the evangelical community . But evangelicals , like other voters , have been affected by the broader wave of voter disillusionment with President Bush and the Republican Party . Evangelicals remain the party 's most supportive group , but at levels significantly diminished from where they were in the 2002 and 2004 elections .
Digital ad spending went up 20 % last year , and mobile advertising now tops desktop , but journalism organizations have not been the primary beneficiaries . There was explosive growth in mobile advertising , which increased by 65 % , reaching $ 32 billion – higher than desktop advertising for the first year ever . Almost two-thirds of this $ 60 billion in digital advertising spending ( 65 % ) went to just five technology companies : Google , Facebook , Yahoo , Microsoft and Twitter . Despite this , legacy news gets relatively little boost from this digital boom . Only 5 % of local television stations ' advertising revenue is from digital , according to data from BIA/Kelsey . And while 25 % of publicly held newspapers ' ad revenue is from digital , they actually saw overall digital ad revenue fall by 2 % in 2015 .
The Gulf oil leak once again topped both public interest and media coverage last week , though the percent following the story very closely dropped to 43 % from 57 % the week of July 1 - 5 . Still , 45 % say they followed this news more closely than any other major story . Just 13 % say they followed the next ranking story – the U.S. government 's legal challenge to Arizona 's new immigration law – most closely , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index conducted July 8 - 11 among 1,001 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . News about the oil spill accounted for 15 % of coverage , more than double the next top story but far below the 44 % devoted to the leak the week of June 14 , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . The percentage of coverage devoted to the spill declined in subsequent weeks as the media also focused on other major stories – such as the economy and the war in Afghanistan .
Along with its citizens , America 's popular culture is often well-regarded abroad . Roughly two-thirds across the countries surveyed like American music , movies and television . Europeans and Asians are particularly likely to find U.S. pop culture appealing , while these types of cultural exports are less popular in several Muslim-majority nations . Despite the doubts sown several years ago by revelations of American spying on foreign leaders and citizens , across the 37 countries polled this spring a median of 54 % believe the U.S. government respects the personal freedom of its people . In Europe , America 's reputation for individual liberty was damaged by the U.S. National Security Agency 's spying revelations and has not recovered – today , a median of 52 % across the 10 European nations polled say Washington respects personal freedoms , while nearly as many ( a median of 44 % ) say it does not . The U.S. gets higher marks on this issue in Asia and Africa . But America 's influence around the world is not always welcome . For example , even though many people say they personally like American popular culture , a global median of 54 % worry that the influx of U.S. customs and ideas into their country is a bad thing . A U.S. export that not all publics embrace is American-style democracy . While publics around the world generally endorse broad democratic principles , they offer mixed views regarding American ideas about democracy : Globally , a median of 43 % say they like these ideas , while 46 % say they dislike them . As with several other aspects of U.S. soft power , U.S.-style democracy is particularly popular in the African and Asian nations surveyed .
In December , there was a slight improvement in the public 's assessments of the economy , but this month 's poll shows a reversal of that trend . Fewer than one-in-three Americans ( 31 % ) currently rate the country 's economic conditions as excellent or good , while 68 % say the state of the economy is either fair or poor .
A small group of lawmakers with extremely large followings dominate the congressional social media narrative . As is true of both ordinary Twitter users and legislators in other countries , the majority of audience engagement goes to a small group of lawmakers with extremely large followings . In the 116th Congress , the 10 % of members with the most followers on Facebook and Twitter have received more than three-quarters of all favorites , reactions , shares and retweets on these platforms . For example , tweets from members of Congress received about 1.1 billion favorites since January 2019 – and 907 million of those favorites went to just 10 % of members . Congress as a whole produces a vast amount of social media content each month . As a collective , the 116th Congress maintains over 2,000 active official , campaign and personal accounts on Facebook and Twitter ( not counting institutional accounts that periodically change hands , such as committee chair or leadership accounts ) with over a quarter-billion total followers between them .2 In an average month in 2020 so far , these accounts produce more than 100,000 tweets and Facebook posts , which receive tens of millions of audience favorites , reactions , shares and retweets .
When it comes to education level , the president enjoys substantially more support from those with college degrees , and particularly those with postgraduate degrees . Today , 62 % of those with postgraduate degrees approve of his job performance , along with 54 % of those with bachelor 's degrees . Among adults with some college experience but no degree , 47 % approve , as do 49 % of those with no more than a high school degree . As has been the case throughout Obama 's presidency , blacks are overwhelmingly positive of his job performance : Currently , 91 % approve of his handling of his job as president . Similarly , the president garners positive ratings among Hispanics . Today , 65 % of Hispanics approve of his job performance .
Interest in the Iraq war fell to an all-time low last week with 23 % of Americans following news about Iraq very closely . Only 6 % of the public listed the situation in Iraq as the story they were following most closely making it the fifth most closely followed story of the week .
Terrorism is an issue that garners acute concern from more than half the populace ( 53 % ) . Crime , however , is less of an issue in Russia than in previous years , with only 39 % saying it is a very serious problem . In 2017 , 52 % said it was a top concern , which was already significantly lower than the three-quarters of Russians who were very concerned in 2002 .
White evangelical Protestants are the most conservative Republicans : 79 % describe their political views as conservative , compared with 17 % who say they are moderate and just 2 % who call themselves liberal . Republican white mainline Protestants and white non-Hispanic Catholics also are largely conservative ( 63 % and 66 % , respectively ) , but about three-in-ten in each group say their views are moderate ( 31 % among white mainline Protestants and 30 % among white Catholics ) . Republicans younger than age 30 are less likely than older Republicans to classify their political views as conservative , but 62 % in this age group says the label applies to them , while 29 % say they are moderate and 7 % are liberal . In contrast , among those age 50 and older , nearly three-quarters call themselves conservative ( 72 % ) , 22 % say they are moderate and just 4 % say they are liberal .
There is less division among Democrats than in the past on the issues of immigration , same-sex marriage and racial equality . A decade ago , there was more significant disagreement among Democrats over these issues , with the party nearly evenly split . Today , three-quarters of Democrats or more are in agreement on these issues . In 2009 , about half of Democrats ( 52 % ) said immigrants `` strengthen our country because of their hard work and talents . '' Earlier this year , 83 % of Democrats said immigrants did more to strengthen than burden the country . A similar shift has occurred on same-sex marriage and views of the state of racial equality . In 2009 , Democrats were divided in their views of same-sex marriage ; today , three-quarters favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally . Over the same period , the share of Democrats who say the country needs to continue making changes to give blacks equal rights with whites has increased from 57 % to 83 % .
At a country level , some of the most positive assessments of progress over the past 50 years are found in Vietnam ( 88 % say life is better today ) , India ( 69 % ) and South Korea ( 68 % ) – all societies that have seen dramatic economic transformations since the late 1960s , not to mention the end of armed conflict in the case of Vietnam . A majority in Turkey ( 65 % better ) also share a sense of progress over the past five decades . In some of the more developed countries , publics also report that life is better today , including 65 % in Japan and Germany , and 64 % in the Netherlands and Sweden .
While the Boston bombings riveted most Americans , the incident appeared to confirm the public 's long-held belief that occasional terrorist acts are to be expected . Over the past decade , majorities have consistently said that `` occasional acts of terrorism in the U.S. will be part of life in the future . '' This sentiment has spiked to 75 % in the wake of the Boston bombings from 64 % a year ago and now matches the previous high of 74 % in 2003 .
To examine the actual incidence of the areas of concern discussed in the Center 's report , we analyzed national statistics from a variety of sources on getting shot , getting in trouble with the law , teen pregnancy , kidnappings , drug and alcohol use , anxiety/depression , getting beat up and being bullied . Here 's what we found :
As one might expect , young adults are the most likely to be living the wireless-only lifestyle . Nearly two-thirds ( 65.7 % ) of 25- to 29-year-olds , 59.7 % of 30- to 34-year-olds , and 53 % of 18- to 24-year-olds live in wireless-only households , according to the center . However , those percentages are little changed — and in some cases even below — those recorded in the first half of 2013 .
There remain wide differences in these views by party and ideology . Seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say growing diversity in the U.S. makes it a better place to live , including 78 % of Democrats who describe themselves as liberal . A smaller majority of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 66 % ) say the same . By comparison , about half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 47 % ) see a positive impact of growing diversity in the U.S. ; 37 % say it does n't make much difference , and another 14 % say it makes the country a worse place to live . While positive views among Republicans vary little by ideology , negative views are somewhat more widespread among conservative Republicans than moderate and liberal Republicans . About one-in-six conservative Republicans ( 17 % ) say growing racial and ethnic diversity makes the country worse , while just 7 % of moderate and liberal Republicans agree .
The public continues to have divided views of Barack Obama 's job performance : 46 % approve and 49 % disapprove of the way he is handling his job as president . His overall rating is little changed over the course of 2015 . And for the first time in his presidency , more Americans say they disapprove of the way Obama is handling the threat of terrorism ( 57 % ) than approve ( 37 % ) . Over the course of his first term , the public generally gave Obama positive marks for his handling of the threat of terrorism , peaking at 69 % approval in May 2011 following the killing of Osama bin Laden . But his ratings were divided earlier this year ( 46 % approval in May ) and now are in negative territory .
About half each say health care costs ( 53 % ) and the price of food and consumer goods ( 48 % ) have a major impact . By contrast , just 22 % say the federal budget deficit affects their finances a lot and 21 % say the same about `` how the stock market is doing . '' Among members of both parties , particularly Republicans , the shares saying the federal budget deficit has a major effect on their finances is much lower today than it was in 2011 . The share of Republicans who say the deficit affects their finances a lot has declined by about half since 2011 , from 48 % to 23 % . About one-in-five Democrats ( 22 % ) also say the deficit has a big financial impact , down from 38 % seven years ago .
Overall , adults who have more apps on their phone , those who have downloaded apps ( as opposed to purchasing a phone that is preloaded with apps ) , those who have downloaded an app recently ( within the past 30 days ) , and those who have paid for an app download are significantly more likely than other adults to actually use the software on their phones .
The growth in suburban areas since 2000 is driven by several factors . More than 6 million Americans who used to live in urban and rural counties have migrated to the suburbs , and more than 5 million international immigrants have settled there as well . While urban counties have also had an influx of international immigrants since 2000 ( 7 million ) , they have lost 5 million residents to suburban and rural areas . In contrast , in rural counties , the number that moved out to other types of communities since 2000 modestly exceeded the number that moved in . All county types saw more births than deaths during this time period .
The median duration of unemployment was 13.4 weeks in January , meaning half of the unemployed were out of work for a shorter time and half for longer . While a considerable improvement over the recession 's depths – median duration peaked at 25.2 weeks in June 2010 – this still is well above pre-recession levels ( which typically were around eight or nine weeks ) .
About half ( 52 % ) of American adults lived in middle-class households in 2016 . This is virtually unchanged from the 51 % who were middle class in 2011 . But while the size of the nation 's middle class remained relatively stable , financial gains for middle-income Americans during this period were modest compared with those of higher-income households , causing the income disparity between the groups to grow . The recent stability in the share of adults living in middle-income households marks a shift from a decades-long downward trend . From 1971 to 2011 , the share of adults in the middle class fell by 10 percentage points . But that shift was not all down the economic ladder . Indeed , the increase in the share of adults who are upper income was greater than the increase in the share who are lower income over that period , a sign of economic progress overall .
Even amidst developments on the ground in Syria and the announcement of U.S. plans to aid anti-government groups there , the public continues to pay very little attention to news about Syria . In a separate survey conducted Thursday through Sunday , just 15 % say they are following news about charges that Syria has used chemical weapons against anti-government groups very closely , far fewer than are following other stories such as the government 's collection of communication information ( 35 % ) and news about the national economy ( 30 % ) . In fact , 33 % say they are following news about Syria not at all closely .
Some 95 % of Americans who live in households earning $ 75,000 or more a year use the internet at least occasionally , compared with 70 % of those living in households earning less than $ 75,000 . Even among those who use the internet , the well off are more likely than those with less income to use technology . Of those 95 % of higher-income internet users :
The number of Americans represented by labor unions has decreased substantially since the 1950s , and a new Pew Research Center survey finds that the decline is seen more negatively than positively by U.S. adults . The survey also finds that 55 % of Americans have a favorable impression of unions , with about as many ( 53 % ) viewing business corporations favorably . About half of Americans ( 51 % ) say the large reduction in union representation has been mostly bad for working people in the U.S. , while 35 % say it has been mostly good , according to the Center 's survey , which was conducted in April and May . Views about the impact of diminished union membership are little changed from 2015 . Partisanship has long been a major factor in public attitudes about labor unions . In the new survey , 68 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the reduction in union membership has been mostly bad for working people ; half as many Republicans and Republican leaners ( 34 % ) say the same .
The balance of leaned partisan affiliation among the public has changed little in recent years : 48 % identify with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic , while 39 % identify as Republicans or lean toward the GOP . Since 1992 , only once – in 2002 – have as many people leaned toward the Republican Party as the Democratic Party ( 43 % each ) . They crossed over two times , one in 2002 as stated and once in 1994 ( 44 % R , 44 % D ) .
As positive views of the Russian state surge inside Russia , opinions of Germany , the EU , the U.S. and NATO have turned dramatically negative since 2011 . In 2015 , only 15 % of Russians have a favorable opinion of America , down from 56 % in 2011 . And about a third in Russia ( 35 % ) see Germany favorably , less than half of what it was in 2011 . Similar declines are seen in Russian views of the EU and NATO in the past few years .
This weeks ' massive release of 2012 Medicare billing and payment data stimulated a rush of creativity among data visualizers . But the sheer size of the data dump — covering $ 77 billion paid in 2012 to 880,000 doctors and other health care providers — posed challenges in deciding what to chart and how to display it , from high-level overviews to detailed interactive maps to graphics focusing on the biggest recipients of Medicare reimbursements .
Democrats continue to be the most positive , with 73 % expressing a favorable view , compared with six-in-ten independents and about half of Republicans ( 49 % ) .
In the Pew Research Center 's most recent survey , conducted Oct. 3 - 6 , most Republicans and Republican leaners who agree with the Tea Party ( 64 % ) approved of how GOP leaders were handling negotiations on the government shutdown . Most other Republicans ( 61 % ) did not .
Growing share see strong partisan conflicts The nearly two-thirds of Americans who see very strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans in the U.S. today is up from 56 % who said this in December 2016 and 47 % who said this in December 2012 .
The public is divided over President Obama 's recent executive action that expands the number of undocumented immigrants permitted to stay and work in the U.S. At the same time , Americans continue to broadly support a pathway to legal status for people in this country illegally . About as many disapprove ( 50 % ) as approve ( 46 % ) of Obama 's action , which could make up to 4 million people newly eligible for deportation relief . Roughly eight-in-ten Republicans ( 82 % ) disapprove of the executive action and about seven-in-ten Democrats ( 71 % ) approve of it , with very strong attitudes on both sides .
Fewer than one-in-five Pakistanis ( 15 % ) have a positive view of the U.S. — of the publics included in the 2007 survey , only Palestinians ( 13 % ) and Turks ( 9 % ) are less favorably disposed . Moreover , despite their own concerns about terrorism , Pakistanis overwhelmingly oppose U.S.-led efforts to fight terrorism — six-in-ten ( 59 % ) oppose America 's anti-terror campaign , while only 13 % back it . Pakistanis are also leery of American efforts to encourage democracy in their country — 57 % believe the U.S. only promotes democracy when it serves its interests , and 72 % say they dislike American ideas about democracy .
Non-Hispanic whites constituted a majority ( 60 % ) of the U.S. population in 2018 , and they were also the oldest of any racial or ethnic group as measured by median age – a different statistic than most common age ( mode ) . Whites had a median age of 44 , meaning that if you lined up all whites in the U.S. from youngest to oldest , the person in the middle would be 44 years old . This compares with a median age of just 31 for minorities and 38 for the U.S. population overall .
Fully 72 % of U.S. adults say even though new studies sometimes conflict with prior findings `` the core ideas about how to eat healthy are pretty well understood . '' Majorities of those with more and less focus on eating healthy share this viewpoint as do majorities of those with more and less concern about the issue of GM foods .
America 's reputation as a defender of individual liberty has generally been strong in Pew Research Center surveys since we first started asking about it in 2008 . The prevailing view among the publics surveyed has typically been that the U.S. government respects the personal liberties of its people , and that is true again in this year 's poll . However , this opinion has become less common over time , and the decline has been particularly sharp among key U.S. partners in Europe , North America and Asia .
Currently , 51 % say that protecting the environment should be a top priority for the president and Congress this year , which is little changed over the past two years . The percentage of the public rating environmental protection as a major policy goal hit a high point of 63 % , after George W. Bush 's election , and fell to about 40 % in Obama 's first years in office .
Around three-quarters of Americans ( 77 % ) say it is not very or not at all acceptable for social media companies to leverage users ' data to show them ads from political campaigns . A much smaller share of adults ( 22 % ) say this practice is very or somewhat acceptable , according to the September survey . Partisans agree about the unacceptability of this practice , with 78 % of Republicans and 76 % of Democrats saying it is not very or not at all acceptable .
Such analyses , though , rely on projections of how many same-sex couples will want to marry . In the Pew Research Center 's recent survey of LGBT Americans , similar percentages of unmarried gay men and lesbians ( 56 % and 58 % , respectively ) said they would like to get married someday ; 4 % of gay men and 6 % of lesbians said they were currently legally married ( the report did not attempt to estimate the total LGBT population ) .
In 2014 , 61 % of all federal arrests involved non-U.S. citizens , up from 43 % in 2004 . U.S. citizens , by contrast , accounted for 39 % of all arrests in 2014 , down from 57 % a decade earlier . ( Totals omit cases in which records are missing or unknown . )
One year after the surge of 1.3 million refugees who entered Europe in 2015 was at its peak , the number of new arrivals this summer has declined sharply compared with last year . But at the same time , the backlog of unprocessed asylum applications has reached more than 1 million and continues to grow , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the United Nations and European Union . In 2016 , people have continued to cross the eastern Mediterranean into Europe , but in much smaller numbers . However , migration could again surge if an agreement between the EU and Turkey collapses following a coup attempt in Turkey . Migration from Turkey into Greece – the transit corridor used by most of 2015 's 1.3 million migrants – largely stopped once the EU-Turkey deal was put in place in March 2016 . This summer , an average of about a hundred migrants has landed on Greece 's shores daily , down from the thousands who arrived every day last summer , according to data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
While they 're spending more time with their children , many dads feel they 're not doing enough . Most dads ( 63 % ) said in a 2017 survey that they spend too little time with their kids , compared with 35 % of mothers who said the same . Among both dads and moms who said they spend too little time with their kids , work obligations were cited most often as the main reason .
The survey finds that the number saying there is a great deal of political bias in the news has risen to a new high , with the most intense criticism coming from Tea Party Republicans . Currently , 37 % of Americans say there is a great deal of bias in news coverage and 30 % say there is a fair amount of bias . Far fewer see not too much bias ( 21 % ) or none at all ( 10 % ) . The percentage saying there is a great deal of bias has increased six points , from 31 % to 37 % , since 2008 .
Looking at the public 's top stories for 2011 , other dramatic events have attracted as much or more interest . For several weeks after the Japan earthquake in March , majorities cited the disaster as their most closely followed story . In mid-January 49 % said that their top story was news about the shooting rampage in Tucson , Ariz. , that left six dead and Rep. Gabrielle Giffords fighting for her life . One month later , 48 % said they were most closely following news about the dramatic uprising in Egypt and the resignation of President Hosni Mubarak .
A majority ( 57 % ) of adults say the U.S. has n't gone far enough when it comes to giving women equal rights with men . Assessments of the country 's progress vary by gender and political party . Women ( 64 % ) are more likely than men ( 49 % ) to say that the country has n't made enough progress , and Democrats and those who lean to the Democratic Party are more than twice as likely as Republicans and Republican leaners to say the U.S. has n't gone far enough to give women the same rights as men ( 76 % vs. 33 % ) .
Overall public views of the FBI remain positive : 65 % have a favorable opinion of the FBI , while 26 % view it unfavorably . But since early 2017 , the share of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents with a positive view of the bureau has fallen 16 percentage points , from 65 % to 49 % . The national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted July 11 - 15 among 1,007 adults , finds that six-in-ten or more view several federal agencies favorably : the National Park Service ( 83 % favorable ) , the Census Bureau ( 69 % ) , the FBI ( 65 % ) , the CIA ( 61 % ) and the Department of Health and Human Services ( 60 % ) . However , views of ICE are evenly divided . About as many Americans view Immigration and Customs Enforcement favorably ( 44 % ) as unfavorably ( 47 % ) .
Public interest in the campaign was up moderately : 35 % followed campaign news very closely up from 27 % the week before . Clinton generated her highest level of campaign coverage for the year thus far ( 70 % of all campaign stories featured Clinton ) , edging out Obama ( at 67 % ) , according to PEJ . However , Obama remained the most visible candidate in the eyes of the public . Since mid-March , the amount of news coverage devoted to Clinton compared to Obama has fluctuated in concert with events on the campaign trail . However Obama has consistently been the more visible candidate to the public . On average , more than half of the public has pointed to Obama as the candidate they have heard the most about in the news recently . About 30 % , on average , have named Clinton . Consistently , fewer than 10 % have named John McCain as the most visible candidate in the news during this period .
Interest in news about the U.S. economy skyrocketed last week , with 70 % of Americans following economic developments very closely , up from 56 % the previous week . Interest in economic news is broadly bipartisan with equal proportions of Republicans , Democrats and independents following news about current economic conditions very closely .
Over the first four months of 2009 , the Republican Party has continued to lose adherents . Interviews with over 7,000 respondents nationwide so far this year found fewer than a quarter ( 23 % ) of the combined total identifying themselves as Republicans . This is down from 25 % in 2008 , and from 30 % in 2004 . In total , the GOP has lost roughly a quarter of its base over the past five years . But these Republican losses have not translated into substantial Democratic gains . So far in 2009 , 35 % of adults nationwide identify as Democrats , about the same as in 2008 ( 36 % ) . While GOP identification has fallen seven points since 2004 , the Democrats have gained only two points over that period . Instead , a growing number of Americans describe themselves as independents , 36 % in 2009 compared with just 32 % in 2008 and 30 % in 2004 . Looking at the individual monthly surveys since December suggests that both political parties are facing declining membership in the wake of an engaging election cycle . In the Pew Research Center 's April 2009 survey , 33 % identified as Democrats , down from 39 % in December 2008 . Over the same period , the share calling themselves Republicans has fallen from 26 % to 22 % . By contrast , the number of independents has risen from 30 % in December to 39 % now . While it is not unusual for Republican and Democratic identification to grow over the course of an election and subside afterward , the magnitude of these changes is noteworthy .
Among the 65 % with a positive view of capitalism , many give reasons that contrast with criticisms of socialism . For example , while many who hold a negative view of socialism say it undermines initiative and makes people too dependent on government , nearly a quarter of those with a positive view of capitalism say it promotes individual opportunity ( 24 % say this ) . Nearly a quarter of Americans who have a positive view of capitalism ( 24 % ) say they hold their views because the system provides opportunity for individual financial growth . A similar share ( 22 % ) expresses general positivity towards capitalism , saying that the system works .
Six-in-ten Americans say it is the federal government 's responsibility to make sure all Americans have health care coverage , including 31 % who support a `` single payer '' approach to health insurance , according to a new national survey by Pew Research Center . These views are little changed from last year , but the share saying health care coverage is a government responsibility remains significantly higher than it was from 2008 through 2016 ( 51 % said this in 2016 , compared with 60 % today ) . Even among the 37 % who say the federal government is not responsible for ensuring Americans have health care coverage , there is little appetite for government withdrawing entirely from involvement in health care . Most within this group ( 31 % of the public overall ) say that health care coverage is not the government 's responsibility , but that programs like Medicare and Medicaid should be continued ; just 4 % of Americans say the government should not be involved in providing health insurance at all .
At the same time , the Greek public does not expect the economic situation in their country to improve . A majority of the Greeks ( 64 % ) were pessimistic about the economy 's future in the next year and 54 % believed their personal situation will be worse in the next 12 months .
Pluralities of voters say that Mitt Romney is the candidate best able to deal with several of the domestic issues , including taxes ( 40 % cite him ) , immigration ( 37 % ) , and social issues ( 28 % ) . But Giuliani and McCain exceed Romney on issues related to national security . McCain is the plurality choice on Iran ( 32 % ) and Iraq ( 31 % ) , and Giuliani is picked by 30 % as best able to handle terrorism ( and McCain is second with 26 % ) .
According to the most recent report from the CDC 's National Center for Health Statistics , four-in-ten U.S. adults owned only a cellphone in 2013 . Hispanics , African Americans , younger adults and the poor are more likely to use only a cell phone . By increasing the number of cellphone-only respondents , we can also ensure that we 're more accurately representing these groups .
By far the biggest chunk of people not in the labor force are people who simply do n't want to be , according to data from the monthly Current Population Survey ( which the BLS uses to , among other things , calculate the unemployment rate ) . Last month , according to BLS , 85.9 million adults did n't want a job now , or 93.3 % of all adults not in the labor force . ( All of the figures we 're using in this post are unadjusted for seasonal variations . ) But let 's look in particular at the youngest part of the eligible workforce . The share of 16- to 24-year-olds saying they did n't want a job rose from an average 29.5 % in 2000 to an average 39.4 % over the first 10 months of this year . There was a much smaller increase among prime working-age adults ( ages 25 to 54 ) over that period . And among people aged 55 and up , the share saying they did n't want a job actually fell , to an average 58.2 % this year . People 55 and over do , as you might expect , account for more than half of the 85.9 million adults ( as of October ) who say they do n't want a job — about the same percentage as in 2000 . But the 16-to-24 share has edged higher , while the 25-to-54 share has slipped . That could reflect more young adults staying in or returning to school rather than chancing a tough job market .
Long-running concerns about India are also reflected in the poll . The dispute between Pakistan and India over Kashmir is cited as a major problem facing the country by no fewer than 88 % . And growing worries about extremism notwithstanding , more Pakistanis judge India as a very serious threat to the nation ( 69 % ) than regard the Taliban ( 57 % ) or al Qaeda ( 41 % ) as very serious threats . Most Pakistanis see the U.S. as on the wrong side of this issue : by a margin of 54 % to 4 % the U.S. is seen as favoring India over Pakistan .
In the U.S. , there 's a wide partisan gap about climate change . Among American adults , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are less likely than Democrats and Democratic leaners to express concern about climate change . Roughly a quarter ( 27 % ) of Republicans say climate change is a major threat , compared with more than three-quarters of Democrats ( 83 % ) – a 56 percentage point difference . Democrats have also grown more worried about climate change since the question was first asked five years ago , while Republican opinions on climate have remained roughly the same .
More than 60 million people are displaced from their homes as of the end of 2015 , the highest number of displaced people since World War II , according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) . This group accounts for 0.8 % of the world 's population , or nearly 1 in 100 people globally , and represents the highest share of the world 's population that has been forcibly displaced since UNHCR began collecting data on displaced persons in 1951 . The UNHCR defines displaced persons as those who have been forced to leave their homes . This includes those who still live in their country of birth ( internally displaced persons ) as well as those who left for a different country ( refugees and asylum seekers ) and have yet to resettle permanently . People can be displaced for years or , as is the case for Palestinian refugees , even for generations .
On Iran , by contrast , there are major differences . While majorities in both parties have cold feelings , these views are much more widespread – and more intensely negative – among Republicans . A 64 % majority of Republicans have very cold feelings toward Iran , compared with only 34 % of Democrats .
If demography is destiny , then Christianity 's future lies in Africa . By 2060 , a plurality of Christians – more than four-in-ten – will call sub-Saharan Africa home , up from 26 % in 2015 , according to a new analysis of demographic data by Pew Research Center . At the same time , the share of Christians living in many other regions – notably Europe – is projected to decline .
In December 2012 , a quarter of Americans said they were `` very closely '' or `` fairly closely '' following the news that the young royals were expecting a child , who will be third in line for the British throne . Interest was greatest among Americans in the 55 - 64 age range , 36 % of whom said they were following the news .
When it came to specifics , the public was far less interested in their side compromising . For example , when people were asked if they wanted their preferred party to compromise on abortion policy or stick to its position , just one-quarter ( 25 % ) chose compromise and 72 % preferred not compromising , even at the risk of getting nothing done . And on other political issues , where specific choices were mentioned , only about half said that their side should compromise to reach an agreement . Among those who said that a certain issue was their top priority , even fewer said their side should compromise on it .
A few months later , a Harris poll got a sense of how homosexuals were viewed by the public by asking whether homosexuals ( and many other groups ) were `` more helpful '' or `` more harmful '' to American life . By a margin of 63 % to 1 % , Americans said homosexuals were more harmful than helpful ; 25 % said homosexuals neither helped nor harmed and 10 % were not sure . This balance of opinion at the time put homosexuals in similar esteem as prostitutes and atheists – although not as negatively viewed as Americans who were members of the Communist Party . Among other groups , civil rights demonstrators recorded 25 % support as being more helpful , but a 60 % majority said they were more harmful . ( For reference , among the full list of 18 types of people , `` young people who spend most of their time reading books '' had the most positive ratings , 48 % to 8 % . )
Americans continue to say they are tracking news about the environmental disaster unfolding in the Gulf of Mexico more closely than any other story . More than half ( 52 % ) say this is the news they are following most closely . Looking at a separate measure , 57 % say they are following the oil leak very closely , about the same level of interest as the past five weeks . According to PEJ , media coverage last week was divided among several major stories . The oil leak accounted for 15 % of the newshole , not much more than the 13 % of coverage devoted to the economic developments . The Senate Judiciary Committee 's confirmation hearings on Kagan 's Supreme Court nomination accounted for 11 % of coverage , though the public showed relatively little interest . Just 16 % say they followed this news very closely . That 's not much different from the 20 % in July 2009 who said they were very closely following the hearings for President Obama 's first Supreme Court nominee , Sonia Sotomayor . Kagan 's hearings produced no surprises and little drama ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Interest in the arrest by American law enforcement of 11 people suspected of being spies for Russia was similar to interest in Kagan 's confirmation hearings ; 15 % say they followed this story very closely . It was the story followed most closely by 2 % . Coverage of the alleged spy ring accounted for 8 % of the newshole .
Americans expect a range of scientific and technological developments ahead . But the public is divided over the prospects for space tourism in the next 50 years . Half ( 50 % ) believe this will happen while half are skeptical this will be routine for ordinary people . About a third of Americans ( 32 % ) believe that colonies on other planets – habitable for long periods of time – will be built by the year 2068 , while two-thirds ( 67 % ) doubt this will happen .
Obama leaves office on a high note . The soon-to-be-former president leaves office with an approval rating of 55 % , among his highest ratings since 2012 . Obama 's job ratings , which had been mixed for the early portion of his second term , moved into positive territory in June and have stayed there ever since .
Those paying the most attention to news about the Zika virus are more likely than others to view it as a threat . For instance , 74 % of those who have heard a lot about Zika consider it a major threat to pregnant women or those trying to get pregnant , compared with 49 % of those who have heard only a little or nothing about Zika who feel that way .
While the public is divided in its expectations of how Kavanaugh would address Roe , most Americans want Supreme Court nominees to answer senators ' questions on issues like abortion during confirmation hearings . Overall , 61 % of adults –including 70 % of Democrats and 51 % of Republicans – say that when senators ask about issues like abortion , Supreme Court nominees should be required to answer .
The CPS also drills down to asking people exactly which members of their household use the internet at various places , yielding an estimate that 79 % of U.S. adults personally use the internet from anywhere . Unfortunately , the CPS does not ask its respondents whether they personally access the internet using a cellular data plan . This CPS estimate lines up closely with the 2018 National Health Interview Survey ( NHIS ) , which estimates that 79 % of U.S. adults would say yes to a very simple question , `` Do you use the internet ? '' Another potential measurement wrinkle comes from the various types of activities people can engage in on the internet . Some might equate `` using the internet '' with web browsing alone , inadvertently excluding email . Someone who only checks their email via a standalone email client or a mobile app could potentially say they do n't use the internet . Fortunately , the NHIS also asks respondents whether they send or receive emails . If we combine this with the previous estimate , we get a slight uptick to 81 % of U.S. adults who either `` use the internet '' or use email . While these varied approaches to measuring internet use can be bewildering , they all tell roughly the same story when viewed over time . Whether the measure is internet access , home internet use , personally using the internet anywhere , or the Center 's composite measure which includes email and cellphones , more and more Americans have the internet than in previous years .
About a third of Americans familiar with Black Lives Matter say they do n't understand the goals of the movement . Roughly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of those who have heard at least a little about Black Lives Matter say they understand the movement 's goals very or fairly well . Still , about a third ( 36 % ) of those who have heard about Black Lives Matter say they do n't understand its goals too well – or at all . Blacks who have heard at least a little about Black Lives Matter are far more likely than whites who have some general awareness of the movement to say they understand its goals very well ( 42 % vs. 16 % ) . About four-in-ten whites who have heard of Black Lives Matter ( 38 % ) say they do n't understand the movement 's goals particularly well . Blacks are more likely than whites to say the Black Lives Matter movement will be effective in the long run . About six-in-ten blacks ( 59 % ) believe that Black Lives Matter will ultimately be effective in bringing about racial equality . Whites are about evenly divided : 34 % say the Black Lives Matter movement will be effective in helping blacks achieve equality , while 39 % say the movement wo n't be effective ; another 26 % either were n't familiar with the movement or did n't provide an opinion . Among blacks , skepticism about the effectiveness of Black Lives Matter may reflect broader skepticism about the future of racial equality in the U.S. Our survey found that fully 43 % of blacks doubt that the U.S. will ever make the changes needed for blacks to have equal rights with whites . Some 11 % of whites feel this way .
Respondents to the survey were read a list of seven major nations , and for each one , were asked whether they think it is playing a more important , less important , or as important of a role in the world compared with 10 years ago . Among the seven countries tested , China stands apart : A median of 70 % across the nations polled say Beijing plays a more important role today than a decade ago . Half or more in 23 of 25 countries express this view . Many also say this about Russia . A median of 42 % believe Moscow 's role on the world stage has grown over the past decade , and majorities hold this view in Greece , Israel , Tunisia and Russia itself . Overall , people are split on whether Germany 's role is greater than it was 10 years ago or about the same , but many in Europe see Germany 's role as more influential . On the other hand , Europeans are particularly likely to think the UK is less important now . There is no real consensus in views of America 's prominence in world affairs . A median of 35 % believe it is as important as it was 10 years ago , while 31 % say it is more important and 25 % say less . Japan is the only country with a majority saying that Washington plays a less important role . Meanwhile , Israelis , Nigerians and Kenyans are particularly likely to think the U.S. is more important than it used to be .
There were nearly 60 million Latinos in the United States in 2017 , accounting for approximately 18 % of the total U.S. population . In 1980 , with a population of 14.8 million , Hispanics made up just 6.5 % of the total U.S. population . For more , read the accompanying blog post , `` Key facts about U.S. Hispanics and their diverse heritage . '' For facts on the foreign-born population in the United States , see our profile on U.S. immigrants .
While support for same-sex marriage has risen sharply among all age groups compared to even a decade ago , so-called `` Millennials '' ( people born after 1980 ) are by far the most likely to say gay men and lesbians should be able to marry legally . In a March survey by the Pew Research Center , fully 70 % of Millennials said they supported same-sex marriage . The report attributed much of the overall opinion shift to the arrival of that generation on the scene .
While location-tagging has grown more popular over the past two years , another location-based practice — `` checking in '' via a geosocial service such as Foursquare — seems to have become less so . The May survey found that 12 % of adult smartphone owners ( equivalent to 7 % of all adults ) had used a check-in service , down from 18 % ( 10 % of all adults ) in February 2012 .
Americans tend to be more skeptical of what effects climate change policies have on the economy . Some 30 % of Americans say climate change policies help the U.S. economy , while a roughly equal share ( 31 % ) believes these policies generally hurt the economy . Another 36 % say policies to reduce the effects of global climate change generally make no difference to the U.S. economy . Conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats are at odds on this question . A majority of conservative Republicans ( 66 % ) say these policies generally hurt the U.S. economy , compared with just one-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 11 % ) . And while about half of liberal Democrats ( 53 % ) say climate change policies help the economy , only 8 % of conservative Republicans say the same .
Overall , 55 % say that problems in the world would be even worse without U.S. involvement , compared with fewer ( 38 % ) who say U.S. efforts to solve problems around the world usually end up making things worse . Views on this question are unchanged from March of last year , the first time it was asked by the Pew Research Center .
As has been the case over the past four years , the Republican Party is viewed as more extreme in its positions than the Democratic Party . Currently , 52 % say the GOP is more extreme , compared with 35 % who say this better describes the Democratic Party .
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in collaboration with Carnegie Endowment for International Peace last year found that 56 % of Americans said it 's `` very important '' for the U.S. to be tough with China on economic and trade issues , and 52 % said China 's emergence as a world power constituted a major threat to the United States . At the same time , 55 % of the U.S. public said building a strong relationship with China should be a top priority , and nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) said U.S.-China relations were `` very '' or `` somewhat '' good .
About half of employed parents with children younger than 18 – including similar shares of mothers ( 53 % ) and fathers ( 51 % ) – say being a working parent makes it harder for them to be a good parent . But employed moms ( 50 % ) are more likely than employed dads ( 39 % ) to say being a working parent makes it harder for them to advance in their job or career .
The increase in cell phone ownership has been especially dramatic in Russia . About eight-in-ten Russians ( 82 % ) now say they own a cell phone , compared with just 8 % in 2002 ; in 2007 , about two-thirds ( 65 % ) had a cell phone . In Kenya , cell phone ownership has increased sevenfold , from 9 % in 2002 to 65 % in 2010 , and far more also own cell phones in Jordan ( up by 59 percentage points ) , Argentina ( 49 points ) , China ( 40 points ) and Indonesia ( 38 points ) than did so in 2002 .
Seventy years after the end of the Chinese Civil War , about two-thirds of adults in Taiwan identify as just Taiwanese . On the other hand , about three-in-ten ( 28 % ) see themselves as both Taiwanese and Chinese . The question asks respondents whether they consider themselves Taiwanese , Chinese or both . A mere 4 % see themselves as only Chinese . These findings are consistent with other polls showing that people in Taiwan increasingly identify only as Taiwanese as opposed to both Taiwanese and Chinese or solely Chinese . National identity is additionally split across political affiliation . Those who feel closest to the DPP are most likely to see themselves as Taiwanese . Roughly two-thirds of the politically unaffiliated – those who do not feel close to any party – are also most likely to identify as just Taiwanese , while about three-in-ten consider themselves both Taiwanese and Chinese . Those who identify with the KMT are more likely to say they are both Taiwanese and Chinese than just Taiwanese . Still , about a third of this group identifies as only Taiwanese . No more than about one-in-ten in each political group see themselves as only Chinese .
About a quarter of social media users ( 23 % ) say they have changed their settings on social media to see fewer posts from someone because of something related to the 2016 election . An even smaller share ( 16 % ) say they have blocked or unfriended someone on social media over something related to the election .
Hispanics are projected to be the largest racial or ethnic minority group in the U.S. electorate when voters cast their ballots next year . The number of eligible voters who are Hispanic ( 32 million ) is projected to surpass that of black eligible voters ( 30 million ) for the first time , according to Pew Research Center projections based on data from the U.S. Census Bureau . However , voter turnout will play an important role in the influence of different racial and ethnic groups . In past elections , black voter turnout substantially surpassed Hispanic voter turnout . The projections indicate that whites will account for two-thirds of the electorate , a declining share .
The web continues to be populated largely by younger generations , as over half of the adult internet population is between 18 and 44 years old . But larger percentages of older generations are online now than in the past , and they are doing more activities online , according to the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project surveys taken from 2006 - 2008 . The biggest increase in internet use since 2005 can be seen in the 70 - 75 year-old age group . While just over one-fourth ( 26 % ) of 70 - 75 year olds were online in 2005 , 45 % of that age group is currently online . Much as we watch demographic and age groups move up in `` degrees of access '' on our `` thermometers , '' 5 we can probably expect to see these bars become more level as time goes on . For now , though , young people dominate the online population .
Nonetheless , many Pakistanis endorse extreme views about law , religion and society . More than eight-in-ten support segregating men and women in the workplace , stoning adulterers , and whipping and cutting off the hands of thieves . Roughly three-in-four endorse the death penalty for those who leave Islam .
An overwhelming majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 91 % ) say that developing alternative sources should be the nation 's energy priority . A smaller majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 65 % ) also takes this view . Among moderate and liberal Republicans , a large share ( 81 % ) say developing alternative sources should be the nation 's energy priority . The views of moderate and liberal Republicans are relatively close to those of Democrats : 88 % of moderate and conservative Democrats and a near-unanimous 97 % of liberal Democrats say the more important energy priority is developing alternative sources . By contrast , conservative Republicans are much more divided in their views : A narrow majority ( 54 % ) gives greater priority to developing alternative energy sources , while 45 % say the priority should be expanding the production of oil , coal and natural gas .
For example , this survey finds that 58 % of U.S. adults say they would be very or somewhat likely to speak with a public health official who contacted them by phone or text message to speak with them about the coronavirus outbreak . Roughly three-quarters ( 77 % ) report they would be at least somewhat comfortable sharing information with a public health official about the places they have recently visited . A smaller share – 49 % – say they would be similarly comfortable sharing location data from their cellphone . And fully 93 % of adults say they definitely or probably would quarantine themselves for at least 14 days if they were told they should do so by a public health official because they had the coronavirus . Yet the survey also shows that portions of Americans could be hard to reach and relatively uncomfortable engaging with public health officials as part of the contact tracing process related to the coronavirus outbreak . For instance , 41 % of those who were asked about their views on speaking with a public health official who might contact them about the coronavirus outbreak via phone or text say they would be not at all or not too likely to do so . A similar share ( 40 % ) of those who were asked about speaking with a public official who showed up at their residence to talk about COVID-19 say the same thing . Many factors could influence Americans ' participation in contact tracing and quarantine programs . This survey asked U.S. adults how they might behave in three major aspects of contact tracing in the context of the coronavirus outbreak : the likelihood that someone would speak with a public health official ( i.e. , a contact tracer ) who contacted them about the coronavirus ; the degree of comfort that someone would have in sharing information like the names of people with whom they have been in physical contact and the places they have recently visited , or data from their cellphone that tracked their locations ; and their willingness to quarantine for 14 days if they were advised to do so by a public health official . We refer to these three steps as `` speak , '' `` share '' and `` quarantine '' throughout this report .
President Bush 's approval ratings have improved over the month of April even as Americans continue to express strong concerns about Iraq and the way the president is handling that situation . The latest nationwide survey by the Pew Research Center finds 48 % approving and 43 % disapproving of Bush 's overall job performance . This is slightly better than the 43 % rating he received in early April , conducted in the days immediately following the murder and mutilation of American contractors in Falluja .
Similarly , about half of Millennials ( 49 % ) said before Christmas in 2013 that they did not plan to attend religious services on Christmas Eve or Christmas Day , compared with 41 % of Boomers and 35 % of Silent generation members . And while fully one-quarter of Millennials ( 26 % ) say they do not they believe Jesus Christ was born to a virgin , about one-in-five or fewer among older generations say the same . Despite these religious differences , Millennials celebrate many of the cultural parts of Christmas at roughly equal rates to older Americans – and sometimes at even higher rates . For instance , about nine-in-ten Millennials ( 91 % ) said they planned to buy gifts for friends or family during the 2013 holiday season , higher than the share of members of the Silent generation ( 79 % ) and Baby Boomers ( 86 % ) who said the same . And Millennials are at least as likely as their elders to say they planned to attend a gathering with extended family or friends , put up a Christmas tree or go caroling .
When looking at government performance , however , people are less optimistic , with less than half of Americans saying open data can help the quality of government services or officials ' decisions . Additionally , 50 % say they think the data the government provides to the public helps businesses create new products and services .
This online participatory class is composed largely of politically active young adults—fully 30 % of those who post political content online are under the age of 25 , and more than half are younger than 35 . Political content creation is also tightly linked with the use of social media platforms such as online social networks , video sharing sites , blogs and status update services such as Twitter . More than half of the internet users in every major age cohort took part in the political process in one way or another during the 2008 campaign . Indeed , the oldest Americans ( those individuals age 65 and older ) are the only age cohort for which substantially fewer than half of all members of that cohort are online political users . This is due to the relatively low levels of internet usage by seniors—although 60 % of online seniors are online political users , just 37 % of seniors use the internet . As a result , 22 % of the entire senior population got engaged politically online in 2008 . For other age groups ( including those only slightly younger than 65 ) half or more of all adults took part in the online political process in 2008 . Although online political involvement is widely dispersed throughout the population , young adults tend to be the most intense of the online political user cohort . Online political users under the age of 30 are much more likely than other age groups to : However , other online political activities are far from dominated by the youngest of online political users . While two-thirds of online political users under the age of 30 watch online political videos , this activity is relatively popular among other age groups as well . And online political users in all age groups are equally likely to share or forward interesting political nuggets to others . Indeed , older online political users are actually the group that is most likely to forward political content or commentary to others . Since seniors are regular users of email in other contexts ( such as communicating with family members ) it is a small leap for these individuals to share political content .
The U.S. civilian workforce includes 7.6 million unauthorized immigrants , representing a decline since 2007 . Between 2007 and 2017 , the number of unauthorized immigrant workers fell by 625,000 , as did their share of the total U.S. workforce over the same period . In 2017 , this group accounted for 4.6 % of those in the U.S. who were working or were unemployed and looking for work .
During the first full week of Trump 's presidency ( Jan. 21 - 27 ) , 687 refugees from the six restricted countries entered the U.S. , accounting for 34 % of all refugee admissions that week . The following week , Jan. 28 to Feb. 3 , refugee admissions from the six restricted countries all but stopped after Trump 's original executive order on restrictions took effect . They then resumed shortly after a federal judge in Washington state suspended key parts of Trump 's initial order on Feb. 3 and lifted the travel restrictions , a decision that was upheld by a federal appeals court . ( For a look at weekly refugee admissions after the initial executive order , see our earlier analysis . ) Including refugees from countries with no travel restrictions , a total of 7,594 refugees have entered the U.S. during Trump 's first seven weeks in office ( Jan. 21 to March 10 ) . Of these refugees , 3,410 are Muslims ( 45 % ) and 3,292 are Christians ( 43 % ) , with other religions or the religiously unaffiliated accounting for the rest .
Even at some schools where students are back on campus , online learning is much more prevalent this year than in previous years . And for many schools , almost all classes are being held virtually . Americans are skeptical that this type of learning provides the same value as in-person instruction . Overall , 30 % of adults say a course taken only online provides an equal educational value compared with a course taken in person in a classroom ; 68 % say it does not . Majorities of Republicans and Democrats express this view , although Democrats are somewhat more likely than Republicans to say online classes provide an equal value ( 33 % vs. 26 % ) . College graduates are among the most likely to say that online classes do not measure up to in-person ones . Among those with a bachelor 's degree or higher , 75 % say online classes do not provide an equal educational value . This compares with 67 % among those with some college education and 64 % for those with a high school diploma or less .
Foreign-born and U.S.-born Hispanics show significant differences of opinion on some key issues – and not necessarily consistently on one side of the ideological spectrum across the issues . For example , foreign-born Hispanics tend to be more conservative on abortion and same-sex marriage . A majority of the foreign born say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases ( 59 % ) , while the U.S. born are more evenly split ( 46 % say it should be illegal ) . And on same-sex marriage , the foreign born are evenly split on the matter ( 38 % oppose it and 38 % favor it ) , but a clear majority of the U.S. born ( 57 % ) are in favor of allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally .
Majorities of U.S. military veterans – as well as the broader U.S. public – say the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were not worth fighting . Among veterans , 64 % say the war in Iraq was not worth fighting , while 58 % say the same about the war in Afghanistan . The American public holds similar views : 62 % and 59 % of U.S. adults , respectively , say the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were not worth it , considering the costs and the benefits . When asked about the U.S. military campaign in Syria , 55 % of veterans and 58 % of the public say the campaign has not been worth it .
About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) favor building the Keystone XL pipeline , while 48 % are opposed , according to a national Pew Research Center survey conducted Feb. 7 - 12 , 2017 , among 1,503 U.S. adults . The pipeline , which would carry oil from Canada 's oil sands region through the Midwest to refineries on the Gulf Coast , had been blocked by the Obama administration over environmental concerns . Support for Keystone XL has fallen since 2014 , largely because of a sharp decline among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents . The share of the overall public favoring the pipeline has fallen 17 percentage points since 2014 ( from 59 % to 42 % ) . Just 17 % of Democrats favor building the pipeline , less than half the share that did so three years ago ( 44 % ) .
Despite the overall public uneasiness with this type of digital snooping , there are some Americans who report that they have looked through their significant other 's phone without that person 's knowledge . Roughly one-third of partnered adults ( 34 % ) say they have done this , but there are substantial differences by gender , age and relationship status when it comes to looking through a significant other 's phone . Among adults who are partnered , women are far more likely than men to report that they have looked through their current partner 's phone without that person 's knowledge ( 42 % vs. 25 % ) . And while 52 % of partnered adults ages 18 to 29 say they have done this , those shares are 41 % among those ages 30 to 49 , 29 % among those ages 50 to 64 and 13 % among those 65 and older .
Most voters with teenage children say they talk about the election with their children somewhat often ( 44 % ) or very often ( 20 % ) . Parents of younger children talk about the election with their children much less often . Parents and children bring the election up in conversation at nearly the same rate . About half ( 54 % ) of the parents who said they talk about the election at least somewhat often with their children say they mostly discuss it because their children bring it up . About as many ( 46 % ) say they mostly bring it up in conversation . The share that says their children mostly bring it up does not vary depending on the ages of the children .
Four-in-ten Americans say they very closely followed news about the new health care reform law last week ; just as many say they followed news about the economy very closely . However , substantially more people say news about the health care law is the story they followed most closely : 33 % say this about health care , while 18 % say it about the economy . Health care consumed almost 40 % of the newshole in mid-to-late March , but coverage dropped off dramatically after the legislation became law : For the week that included the day Obama signed the bill ( March 22 - 28 ) , the health care debate itself accounted for 38 % of coverage , according to PEJ . The following week , it accounted for 9 % of coverage .
Political identity is a key element of many of our findings related to U.S. politics , and partisanship is the predominant divide seen in the public 's views on political issues . But not everyone in the U.S. identifies with one of the two main political parties . In fact , self-identified independents make up about 38 % of U.S. adults , counting independents who `` lean '' toward one party or the other . For a report on politically independent Americans , we wanted to visualize two things : how large a share of the population considers itself independent and how few within that group are `` true '' independents – that is , adults who do n't lean toward either party .
Recently arrived U.S. immigrants are a growing part of the nation 's foreign-born population , which reached a record 44.4 million in 2017 . Overall , their profile differs from immigrants who have been in the country longer . About 7.6 million immigrants have lived in the country for five years or less . They make up 17 % of the foreign-born population , a share that has returned to 2010 levels after a slight dip . Recently arrived immigrants have markedly different education , income and other characteristics from those who have been in the U.S. for more than a decade . Proposed changes to U.S. immigration laws could favor highly skilled immigrants , which could further change the demographics of the nation 's foreign-born population . U.S. adults support encouraging highly skilled people to immigrate and work in the U.S. , according to a 2018 survey from Pew Research Center .
While the media focused squarely on the federal budget and broader debate in Washington on how to address the deficit and national debt , the public expressed greater interest in the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and news about rising fuel prices . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say they followed news about the tragedy in Japan most closely , making this the public 's top story last week . Japan shared the top spot one week earlier with news about the threat of a government shutdown over budget disagreements . This past week , rising domestic gas and oil prices also captured more attention than the federal spending debate in Washington . Nearly a quarter ( 22 % ) followed fuel prices most closely and a majority ( 53 % ) reported following this news very closely . The media devoted just 1 % of all coverage to this issue .
At a time when college tuition is rising rapidly—particularly at the nation 's private colleges and universities—students and their parents face the question of whether a more expensive education leads to greater returns later in life . The answer given by those who have graduated from college is that their feelings of personal satisfaction and economic well-being are about the same , no matter which type of institution they attended , according to a 2013 Pew Research Center survey . Majorities of each group were satisfied with their family life , financial situation and current job . There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups on any of those three measures on overall satisfaction , though private school graduates were somewhat more likely than public school graduates to say they were `` very satisfied '' with their personal financial situation ( 44 % vs. 34 % ) .
In a Pew Research Center survey conducted in June 2013 , about half ( 51 % ) of Americans said they had favorable opinions of labor unions , versus 42 % who said they had unfavorable opinions about them . That was the highest favorability rating since 2007 , though still below the 63 % who said they were favorably disposed toward unions in 2001 . In a separate 2012 survey , 64 % of Americans agreed that unions were necessary to protect working people ( though 57 % also agreed that unions had `` too much power '' ) .
Fox News was very tough on the last Democratic candidate for president . ( But MSNBC was even tougher on the Republican . ) During the late stages of the 2012 presidential campaign , a Pew Research analysis found that Barack Obama received far more negative coverage than positive on the Fox News Channel . Yet Fox found its ideological mirror image in MSNBC . In the final stretch of the campaign , nearly half ( 46 % ) of Obama 's coverage on Fox was negative , while just 6 % was positive in tone . But MSNBC produced an even harsher narrative about the Republican in the race : 71 % of Romney 's coverage was negative , versus 3 % positive .
Even so , college graduates are the least likely group to be renters . In 2016 , 29 % of college-educated household heads were renters , compared with 38 % of household heads with a high school degree only or some college experience and 52 % of household heads who did not finish high school .
In 2017 , nearly 79 million adults ( 31.9 % of the adult population ) lived in a shared household – that is , a household with at least one `` extra adult '' who is not the household head , the spouse or unmarried partner of the head , or an 18- to 24-year-old student . In 1995 , the earliest year with comparable data , 55 million adults ( 28.8 % ) lived in a shared household . In 2004 , at the peak of homeownership and before the onset of the home foreclosure crisis , 27.4 % of adults shared a household .
About six-in-ten adults ( 58 % ) say the government shutdown is a `` very serious problem '' for the country today , while 22 % view it as a somewhat serious problem ; just two-in-ten say that it is not too ( 13 % ) or not at all ( 7 % ) serious a problem for the country . Democrats are far more likely than Republicans to view the shutdown as a very serious problem for the nation : Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 79 % ) say this , compared with just 35 % of Republicans and Republican leaners . Only about a quarter of conservative Republicans and GOP-leaning independents ( 27 % ) see the shutdown as a very serious problem facing the country , compared with 47 % of moderate and liberal Republicans . Ideological differences among Democrats are more modest : 85 % of liberal Democrats consider the shutdown a very serious problem , while 73 % of conservative and moderate Democrats say the same .
Pew Research Center has been gathering data on acceptance of homosexuality in the U.S. since 1994 , and there has been a relatively steady increase in the share who say that homosexuality should be accepted by society since 2000 . However , while it took nearly 15 years for acceptance to rise 13 points from 2000 to just before the federal legalization of gay marriage in June 2015 , there was a near equal rise in acceptance in just the four years since legalization .
Amid these changes , three-in-ten U.S. adults think it 's a good thing that there is growing variety in the types of family arrangements people live in , while about half as many ( 16 % ) say this is a bad thing . The largest share ( 45 % ) do n't think it makes a difference , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in June 2019 .
Currently , 60 % of Americans say the government should be responsible for ensuring health care coverage for all Americans , compared with 38 % who say this should not be the government 's responsibility . The share saying it is the government 's responsibility has increased from 51 % last year and now stands at its highest point in nearly a decade .
Roughly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) African Americans self-identify as Christian , as do seven-in-ten whites and 77 % of Latinos , according to Pew Research Center 's 2014 Religious Landscape Study . Most black Christians and about half of all African Americans ( 53 % ) are associated with historically black Protestant churches , according to the study . Smaller shares of African Americans identify with evangelical Protestantism ( 14 % ) , Catholicism ( 5 % ) , mainline Protestantism ( 4 % ) and Islam ( 2 % ) .
Gallup also has found that an increasing share of Americans say doctor-assisted suicide , in general , is morally acceptable . In 2015 , 56 % say it is morally OK , up from 45 % two years prior .
Still , when it comes to the prospect of Clinton making history on Nov. 8 , men and women Clinton supporters are on the same page . In an August survey , comparable shares of women ( 65 % ) and men ( 61 % ) Clinton supporters said the election of a woman president would be very important historically . By contrast , most Trump supporters – women ( 67 % ) and men ( 62 % ) alike – said this would be not too important or not at all important .
Just 27 % are bothered `` a lot '' by the amount they pay in taxes . By contrast , 64 % say they are bothered a lot by the feeling that some corporations do not pay their fair share of taxes , and 61 % say the same about some wealthy people failing to pay their fair share . In views of other aspects of the tax system , 44 % say they are bothered a lot by the complexity of the system , while just 20 % are bothered a great deal by the feeling that some poor people are not paying their fair share of taxes .
Despite the growth in cell-only households , the magnitude of possible non-coverage bias remains relatively small for the majority of measures tested . Of 72 questions examined , 43 of them show differences of 0 , 1 or 2 percentage points between the landline and dual frame weighted samples . Twenty-nine of the differences are 3 percentage points or more , all of which are statistically significant . Seventeen of the differences are 3 percentage points . Only one difference is as large as 7 points , while four others are 5 points and seven are 4 points .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted May 1 - 5 among 1,504 adults , finds sizable demographic and religious differences in attitudes toward Islam and violence . And the partisan gap is as large as ever : 62 % of Republicans say that Islam encourages violence more than other religions , compared with 39 % of independents and just 29 % of Democrats .
In the Pew Research sample , two of the three major cable news channels had a fairly even distribution of airtime devoted to opinion and to newsgathering . CNN was the only one to feature more reporting ( 54 % ) than opinion ( 46 % ) overall . At the Fox News Channel , the split leaned toward moderately more opinion ( 55 % ) than reporting ( 45 % ) .
As has been the case for more than a decade , the public 's trust in the federal government to do what is right remains historically low . Today , just 17 % of adults say they trust the federal government to do what is right `` just about always '' ( 3 % ) or `` most of the time '' ( 14 % ) . A large majority ( 71 % ) says they trust the government `` only some of the time '' ; 10 % volunteer that they never trust the federal government .
Additionally , more than three-quarters of Senegalese ( 78 % ) express confidence in Obama 's ability to handle international affairs . After visiting Senegal , Obama is expected to head to South Africa and Tanzania , before returning to U.S. soil .
The survey 's four questions about Judaism included two about Jewish holidays , one about Jewish mysticism ( Kabbalah ) and one about Maimonides , a preeminent Jewish scholar of the Middle Ages . About eight-in-ten Jews or more know that the Jewish Sabbath begins on Friday ( 89 % ) , that Rosh Hashana is the Jewish New Year ( 82 % ) and that Kabbalah is associated with Judaism ( 79 % ) . The question about Maimonides was one of the toughest on the survey for Americans overall , but still , 58 % of U.S. Jews know that Maimonides was Jewish . Jewish respondents correctly answer 3.1 of these four questions , on average . By contrast , U.S. adults overall answer only about one ( 0.9 ) of these four questions correctly , on average . Three-in-ten ( 29 % ) know that the Jewish Sabbath begins on Friday , and about a quarter know that Kabbalah is associated with Judaism ( 27 % ) or that Rosh Hashana is the Jewish New Year ( 24 % ) . Just 13 % know that Maimonides was Jewish .
Hispanics are also divided about the impact of illegal immigration on Hispanics already living in the U.S . Roughly equal shares say the impact has been positive ( 29 % ) , negative ( 31 % ) or made no difference ( 30 % ) . This mixed judgment stands in sharp contrast to views that Latinos expressed on this subject in 2007 . Back then , fully half ( 50 % ) of Latinos said the impact was positive , while just 20 % said it was negative .
Among the legislators ' original tweets relevant to Trump 's visit , the most mentioned topic was the impact of a potential U.S.-UK trade deal on the National Health Service ( NHS ) , the publicly funded , single-payer national health care system .
Pluralities of Republican and Republican-leaning voters rate Giuliani as the strongest leader , most inspiring , and the candidate best able to make the changes the country needs . McCain leads on only one trait – having the best experience to be president – and his advantage is slight ( 32 % vs. 28 % who cite Giuliani ) . Newt Gingrich gets his highest ratings for experience – 17 % of Republicans cite him as the candidate with the best experience to be president .
Are smartphones and social media changing social interactions in emerging economies , or are people simply talking to the same people online that they once talked to offline ? A Pew Research Center survey of adults in 11 nations across four global regions finds that , in many key respects , smartphone users – and especially those who use social media – are more regularly exposed to people who have different backgrounds and more connected with friends they do n't see in person . Those with smartphones are also more likely to have accessed new information about health and government services .
Another way of looking at the data is to compare the rate of annual increase on a quarterly basis , i.e . the percent growth in population from the same quarter in the previous year . Again , the first quarter of 2007 is strikingly different from the average across the eight quarters that preceded it . On average , this population grew at a rate of 8.0 % a year in 2005 and 2006 on a quarterly basis ( Figure 3 ) . In the first quarter of 2007 , however , it continued to grow , but the annual increase on a quarterly basis was smaller—4.2 % .
Overall , 54 % of Americans say the Trump administration is doing too little to protect the environment , 30 % say it is doing the right amount and 5 % say it is doing too much . Political groups have starkly different reactions to the Trump administration 's actions on the environment . Among Republicans and those who lean Republican , about two-thirds ( 65 % ) say the Trump administration is doing the right amount , while only one-in-five ( 20 % ) say the administration is doing too little . But among Democrats and Democratic leaners , the balance of opinion is the opposite : Only 8 % believe the Trump administration is doing the right amount to protect the environment , while 78 % say the administration is doing too little .
Republicans are far more concerned that the U.S. will not go far enough in stopping Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria ( 63 % -30 % ) . By contrast , Democrats ( 57 % -32 % ) and independents ( 51 % -41 % ) express more concern over the U.S. going too far getting involved in the situation .
Eighty-five percent of Americans age 18 and older own a cell phone , making it by far the most popular device among adults . Mobile phones are especially popular with adults under the age of 66 , although the largest drop-off is for adults in the oldest generation ( those age 75 and older ) , of whom 48 % own a cell phone .
Beyond the raw dollar figures , an arguably more useful way to look at the national debt is as a percentage of gross domestic product . Based on the latest GDP estimate the debt currently stands at just over 100 % of gross domestic product , its highest level since just after World War II . ( It was 55.6 % of GDP at the end of fiscal 2001 , according to a useful primer prepared by the Congressional Research Service . ) That gives the United States one of the higher debt-to-GDP ratios among the 30 developed economies tracked by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , though not the highest : That title goes to Japan , whose public debt is more than twice its GDP .
Some 3 % of American adults use ride-hailing apps on a daily or weekly basis , and around two-thirds of these regular ride-hailing users indicate that they own a car or regularly drive a personal vehicle . Although this means that a majority of these regular ride-hailing users are car owners/drivers , they are significantly less likely to own or drive a car than either occasional ride-hailing users or Americans who do not use ride-hailing at all . Yet although they are less dependent on personal vehicle ownership , these regular ride-hailing users rely heavily on a wide range of personal transportation options that go well beyond ride-hailing alone – such as taking public transit , walking or riding a bike , or even using traditional taxi services . To be sure , this trend carries a strong geographic component : For Americans who live far from urban centers , a personal vehicle might be the only available option to get from one place to another . But for those with the option of doing so , ride-hailing apps can serve as one element among many in a network of transportation options that can help reduce users ' reliance on personal vehicle ownership .
But when asked whether the U.S. owed its success more to its `` ability to change '' or its `` reliance on long-standing principles , '' 51 % of Americans attributed its success to the ability to change , while 43 % pointed to reliance on long-standing principles . The question was one of many measures about the country and its future we examined for our 2015 survey on government performance . For most Millennials and Gen Xers , the country 's success was associated with its ability to change . About six-in-ten Millennials ( 62 % ) , ages 18 to 34 in 2015 , and 51 % of Gen Xers ( then ages 35 to 50 ) said the U.S. had been successful because of its ability to change . Boomers ( ages 51 - 69 at the time ) were more divided : 45 % said it was due to America 's ability to change while nearly the same share ( 49 % ) said it was due to its reliance on principles . Members of the Silent generation ( ages 70 - 87 ) were also split : 43 % said America has been successful because of its ability to change while 46 % say it is due to its reliance on long-standing principles .
Across the Middle East and North Africa , ISIS is seen as the leading threat in all four countries in which the item was tested . This sentiment is nearly universal in Lebanon , with 97 % saying ISIS poses a major threat to their country . Large majorities in Tunisia ( 79 % ) , Jordan ( 76 % ) and Israel ( 63 % ) agree . Israel stands out among the Middle Eastern countries surveyed for its lower levels of concern about each international threat tested . While 63 % of Israelis see ISIS as a major threat , about four-in-ten or fewer name any other issue as a major challenge . Within Israel , Jews are more concerned than Arabs about refugees from places like Iraq and Syria ( 44 % vs. 22 % ) , ISIS ( 66 % vs. 53 % ) and Russian power and influence ( 29 % vs 19 % ) .
What 's behind the shift ? While the increased total number of GOP Catholics in the House can be partially explained by the Republicans ' steady gain of seats during the last three elections , the share of GOP members who identify as Catholic also has grown from the 111th Congress ( 21 % ) to the 114th ( 28 % ) . Meanwhile , the percentage of Catholics among House Democrats has dropped slightly , from 38 % to 36 % , over that same time period .
Partisan disagreement often comes in bursts , which appear to follow partisan policy conflicts . In the 114th Congress , strong Democratic opposition to Republicans in press releases followed events such as the GOP 's March 2015 budget proposal and September 2015 plans to defund Planned Parenthood . On the other side of the aisle , Republican opposition to the president and his party surfaced after Obama announced initiatives to sign a nuclear nonproliferation treaty with Iran in August and September 2015 ; prepared to close the Guantanamo Bay detention center in February 2015 ; and nominated Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court in March 2016 .
Taken together , 58 % of cell owners used their phone for at least one of these reasons , with young adults and smartphone owners leading the way — 78 % of cell owners ages 18 - 29 and 72 % of smartphone owners did at least one of these with their phones this holiday season . The 46 % of cell owners who called someone for advice about a purchase represents a significant increase from the 38 % of cell owners who did so during last year 's holiday shopping season .
Our poll also asked parents to rate the job they were doing raising their children . In general , we found that those who gave themselves high ratings as parents were among the most likely to say they were very happy with their life . The reverse was true , too .
Among the public , 60 % say they heard at least a little about the speculation that Christie might run for president , but only 28 % heard a lot about this ; 40 % say they heard nothing at all about the possibility that the New Jersey governor might mount a campaign for president .
Currently , 85 % of Democrats say the government is doing very or fairly well in reducing the terror threat , up 14 points since September . About six-in-ten ( 63 % ) Republicans give the government positive ratings ; at that time , just 40 % of Republicans said the government was doing well in addressing the of terrorism .
A Pew Research Center poll after the Sandy Hook shootings found a modest uptick in the percentage of Americans saying it 's more important to control gun ownership than protect the right of Americans to own guns . But a bill that proposed tighter background checks failed in the Senate in April and by May the uptick in support for gun control fell back down . According to an analysis of state gun laws by The New York Times , more states have loosened gun restrictions than tightened them since the Connecticut school shooting .
The share expressing negative views of both parties has been higher in recent years than in the 2000s or 1990s . In the 2008 presidential election year , 12 % viewed both parties unfavorably . In 2004 , 10 % did so , and in 2000 , just 7 % expressed unfavorable opinions of both the Republican and Democratic parties . Yet the rise in frustration with the parties , especially this year , is not the result of an across-the-board increase in negative views . Instead , it is largely concentrated among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents , who have become increasingly critical of the Republican Party . Currently , 36 % of independents express unfavorable opinions of both parties , as do 22 % of Republicans and just 9 % of Democrats . The biggest shift in opinion has come among Republicans , whose unfavorable impression of both parties is more than double the percentage in January ( 9 % ) . Democrats ' unfavorable view of the two parties is little changed from the start of the year ( 8 % ) . Among independents , there has been a particularly stark rise in the unfavorable views of both parties among Republican-leaning independents , while there is little change in these views among Democratic leaners . Nearly half ( 47 % ) of Republican leaners have an unfavorable impression of both the Republican and Democratic parties , up from 32 % in January and the highest percentage measured since 1992 . Among Democratic-leaning independents , as among Democrats , there has been almost no change since January ( 22 % today , 21 % then ) .
Public opinion polls show that Americans overwhelmingly support an individual 's right to decide whether he or she wants to be kept alive through medical treatment . In a 2005 Pew Research Center survey , 84 % said they approved of laws which say medical treatment that is keeping a terminally ill patient alive can be stopped if that is what the patient desires . In addition , 70 % said there are some circumstances when a patient should be allowed to die , while 22 % said doctors and nurses should always do everything possible to save the life of a patient .
A study from 2014 also revealed that conservatives and liberals have different experiences seeing posts about politics on Facebook . About half of Facebook users who express consistently conservative views across a range of political values questions ( 47 % ) see posts on the site that align with their views all or most of the time , compared with only about a third ( 32 % ) of those who express consistently liberal views . However , a larger share of these consistently liberal Facebook users than of consistent conservatives have de-friended , hidden or blocked someone because of something that friend posted about politics ( 44 % , vs. 31 % ) . Both groups , however , are more likely than those with more mixed political views to report seeing like-minded views and blocking others at much higher rates . Overall , most Facebook users see a mix of views on the platform : Only about a quarter of Facebook users ( 23 % ) see views that align with their own all or most of the time .
As the number of illegal immigrants in the United States has grown , so too have the number of deportations . According to the Pew Hispanic Center , the estimated number of undocumented immigrants increased from 3 million in 1980 to 11.9 million in 2008 , a four-fold increase . The increase in the number of undocumented immigrants in the U.S. coincides with an increase in the number of deportations , or removals , done by the federal government . According to the Department of Homeland Security , nearly 359,000 immigrants were removed in 2008 , up from 18,000 in 1980 .
Younger adults do n't follow election and pandemic news as closely as older ones , but that gap vanishes with the George Floyd demonstrations . Only about one-third of Americans ages 18 to 29 ( 35 % ) are following news about the 2020 presidential candidates very or fairly closely , according to a Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted June 4 - 10 as part of the American News Pathways project . That compares with 46 % of those ages 30 to 49 , 60 % of those ages 50 to 64 and 74 % of those 65 and older . There is a similar pattern with the coronavirus pandemic . While 75 % of 18- to 29-year-olds follow that news very or fairly closely , that is less than the three older groups , where that number ranges from 83 % to 94 % . That gap closes when it comes to coverage of the protests following the police killing of George Floyd . About eight-in-ten of the youngest adults ( 83 % ) follow that news very or fairly closely – roughly on par with every other age group except those 65 and older ( 90 % ) .
By region , those living in the South are less likely than those living elsewhere in the country to hold favorable views of unions : 41 % of Southerners view labor unions favorably , while 42 % hold an unfavorable view . In the three other regions of the country , more hold favorable than unfavorable views of unions .
The share of blacks serving in a presidential Cabinet was at or above parity with the population during the Clinton and George W. Bush administrations . But there was only one black Cabinet secretary during Obama 's first term , and the same is true so far in Donald Trump 's administration . The highest level of black representation in a presidential Cabinet occurred during Bill Clinton 's first term , when four out of 15 Cabinet appointees were black . Throughout the rest of Clinton 's administration and George W. Bush 's two terms , the share remained high relative to the share of blacks in the U.S. population overall . When Obama took office , he appointed only one Cabinet member who was black – Attorney General Eric Holder . During Obama 's second term , there were four black Cabinet appointees . The only black Cabinet member to have been appointed by Trump so far in his presidency is Ben Carson , secretary of Housing and Urban Development .
The number of Americans hearing mostly bad news about the nation 's economy continues to decline . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) now say they are hearing mostly bad economic news , less than half the number that said this in early August ( 67 % ) .
While they have concerns about government surveillance , Americans also say anti-terrorism policies have not gone far enough to adequately protect them . More ( 49 % ) say this is their bigger concern than say they are concerned that policies have gone too far in restricting the average person 's civil liberties ( 37 % ) , according to a January survey . While Americans held this view between 2004 and 2010 , they briefly held the opposite view in July 2013 , shortly after the Snowden leaks .
The new Pew Research center survey , conducted April 8 - 9 among 809 Americans , is the latest installment in a war tracking survey that began on March 20 . With the collapse of Saddam Hussein 's regime , the percentage thinking the U.S. made the right decision in going to war rose from 70 % on Tuesday to 76 % last night . Somewhat fewer ( 65 % ) think President Bush was right to use force when he did , rather than waiting to get more major allies to join the coalition .
Those who took the quiz on our website were considerably more knowledgeable than those who responded to our national survey . Nearly one-third of quiz takers on our website ( 32 % ) aced the test – answering all 13 questions correctly – compared with just 8 % of adults nationally . And nearly one-fourth ( 24 % ) missed only one question , compared with 11 % among the general public . Overall , our website visitors correctly answered an average of 11.2 of the 13 questions , compared with an average of 8.5 correct among the national sample of adults .
In January 2010 , when Pew Research asked how many senators are needed to break a filibuster , only about a quarter ( 26 % ) knew the correct answer , 60 . Almost as many thought only 51 votes were needed — in fact , the rules change that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid is threatening to adopt , at least in regard to presidential appointments — while more than a third ( 37 % ) would n't even venture a guess .
In the wake of widespread disillusionment over the protracted conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq , nearly half of Americans say the country should mind its own business internationally and leave other countries to get along as best they can on their own — one of the highest readings of isolationist sentiment in decades . Isolationist sentiments spiked briefly following the end of the Vietnam War and again after the collapse of the Soviet Union , but in recent years the percentages of Americans wanting the U.S. to mind its own business internationally has ranged from 42 % to 49 % ( most recently 46 % , in 2011 ) , compared to an average of 36 % over the 50-year study period . That , Kohut said , represents one of the highest measures of isolationist sentiment since the question started to be asked .
A month ago , partisan differences in views of economic news reached record levels . Those differences , while still substantial , have narrowed since September as Republican views of economic news have improved both generally , and across most specific sectors . Currently , about half ( 49 % ) of Republicans say economic news is mostly bad , down from 60 % a month ago . Just 13 % of Democrats say economic news is mostly bad , which is virtually unchanged since September . Independents ' views also are little changed ( 36 % mostly bad in September , 29 % currently ) .
The public continues to say that `` business corporations make too much profit . '' Today , 56 % of the public says corporations make too much profit ; 39 % say `` most corporation make a fair and reasonable amount of profit . '' These views have held largely steady since 1994 . Nearly three-quarters of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 72 % ) say corporations make too much profit , while about a quarter ( 24 % ) say corporate profits are reasonable . Conversely , 56 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say most businesses ' profits are fair and reasonable , while 38 % say businesses are profiting too much .
The Pew survey found that British Muslims have a stronger Islamic identity than do Muslims elsewhere in Europe . Fully eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) British Muslims think of themselves as Muslims first rather than as British . In France just 46 % consider themselves as Muslims first . Primary identification as Muslim is higher in Spain ( 69 % ) and Germany ( 66 % ) – but still well below what it is in Britain .
The earnings gap between young adults with a bachelor 's degree or higher and those without has never been greater in the modern era , despite soaring student debt and high youth unemployment . In 1979 , when the first wave of Baby Boomers were the same age that Millennials are today , the typical high school graduate earned about three-quarters ( 77 % ) of what a college graduate made . Today , Millennials with only a high school diploma earn 62 % of what the typical college graduate earns .
Foreign-owned companies employed 6.8 million workers in the United States in 2015 , up 22 % from 2007 , according to preliminary data from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis . The increase is notably larger than overall U.S. private employment growth , which was 3.6 % over the same span .
Younger adults in Taiwan tend to favor economic relations with the U.S. over relations with the mainland more than their older counterparts , and they are more supportive when it comes to closer relations with the U.S. For example , roughly eight-in-ten or more of each age group favor closer U.S.-Taiwan ties in economic matters . Only about four-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 say they would support closer economic ties with mainland China , while 55 % of those 50 and older say the same . Among younger people , there is a 50 percentage point difference in support for economic relations with the two countries . A similar pattern exists when it comes to political relations with the U.S. and mainland China .
But Americans and Japanese differ on Japan 's role in regional security . Seven decades after the end of World War II , the American public is divided over whether Japan should play a more active military role in helping to maintain peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region : 47 % would like to see Tokyo take a more active role and 43 % would prefer that Japan limit its role . Americans who trust Japan also say they want Tokyo to play a greater strategic role in the region . And Americans who do not trust China say they want Japan to take on more of the military burden in Asia .
As the following charts show , the differences between dial-up and broadband users persist in our October 2002 data , but they are much smaller for dial-up users with 6 or more years of online experience who say they want broadband . This is especially true for information gathering activities . Two in five ( 41 % ) of broadband users get news on the Internet on a typical day compared with 35 % of experienced dial-up users who want broadband .
Moreover , there is enduring belief in democracy among Muslim publics , which contrasts sharply with the skepticism many Westerners express about whether democracy can take root in the Muslim world . Pluralities or majorities in every Muslim country surveyed say that democracy is not just for the West and can work in their countries . But Western publics are divided – majorities in Germany and Spain say democracy is a Western way of doing things that would not work in most Muslim countries . Most of the French and British , and about half of Americans , say democracy can work in Muslim countries .
Reagan is the top choice among Boomers ( ages 54 to 72 ) and Silents ( ages 73 to 90 ) ; about four-in-ten in the two older generations name Reagan ( 42 % of Boomers , 38 % of Silents ) . But within both generations , there are a range of opinions , with Obama , Kennedy , Clinton and Trump all receiving mentions from 15 % or more Boomers and Silents .
One way to insure that an individual 's desires about end-of-life medical care are carried out is to put them in writing . Nearly all Americans know what a `` living will '' is , and most have given at least some thought to their own wishes regarding medical treatment at the end of their life . In the 2005 Pew Research survey , 35 % said they 've given this a great deal of thought and 36 % said they 've given it some thought . Even so , only 27 % said they have put their wishes in writing and 29 % said they have a living will . Though , this represented a significant increase from 1990 when even fewer — 12 % — had some sort of living will . Not surprisingly , older people are more likely than young people to have thought about these issues and to have formalized their wishes . Half of those ages 65 and older ( 51 % ) say their wishes for medical treatment are written down and 54 % say they have a living will .
More Hispanic registered voters say they have given `` quite a lot '' of thought to the upcoming midterm elections compared with four years ago and are more enthusiastic to vote this year than in previous congressional elections . But they lag behind the general public on some measures of voter engagement , according to recent Pew Research Center surveys . Overall , 52 % of Latino registered voters say they have given the coming November election `` quite a lot '' of thought , a 16-percentage-point increase from what they said about the last midterm election in 2014 . In addition , a majority ( 55 % ) of Latino registered voters in 2018 say they are more enthusiastic about voting compared with previous congressional elections , up from 37 % in 2014 .
In Sweden , those with a favorable view of the Sweden Democrats – a party that has opposed increased multiculturalism and especially immigration – are 42 percentage points more likely than nonsupporters to have an unfavorable opinion of Muslims . A similar gap exists between Germans who support AfD and those who do not ( 41 points ) .
The total estimated advertising revenue for the newspaper industry in 2018 was $ 14.3 billion , based on the Center 's analysis of financial statements for publicly traded newspaper companies . This is down 13 % from 2017 . Total estimated circulation revenue was $ 11.0 billion , compared with $ 11.2 billion in 2017 .
The public sees China in less negative terms than Russia . Still , 43 % consider China a serious problem ( but not an adversary ) ; about a third ( 34 % ) say China is not much of a problem , while just 16 % consider China an adversary . The share that considers China an adversary has edged down 6 points since early 2017 . Adults younger than 50 are less likely than older adults to see China as a problem . Nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) of those ages 50 and older view China as a serious problem ( 49 % ) or as an adversary ( 19 % ) . A smaller share of those ages 18 to 49 ( 51 % ) think of China as a serious problem ( 39 % ) or as an adversary ( 13 % ) ; 44 % of younger adults consider China not much of a problem . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , 68 % say China is a serious problem ( 46 % ) or an adversary ( 22 % ) . A smaller majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners see China in these terms ( 54 % ) , including just 11 % who think of China as an adversary .
The wealth gap between America 's richest and poorer families more than doubled from 1989 to 2016 , according to a recent analysis by the Center . Another way of measuring inequality is to look at household wealth , also known as net worth , or the value of assets owned by a family , such as a home or a savings account , minus outstanding debt , such as a mortgage or student loan . In 1989 , the richest 5 % of families had 114 times as much wealth as families in the second quintile ( one tier above the lowest ) , at the median $ 2.3 million compared with $ 20,300 . By 2016 , the top 5 % held 248 times as much wealth at the median . ( The median wealth of the poorest 20 % is either zero or negative in most years we examined . ) The richest families are also the only ones whose wealth increased in the years after the start of the Great Recession . From 2007 to 2016 , the median net worth of the top 20 % increased 13 % , to $ 1.2 million . For the top 5 % , it increased by 4 % , to $ 4.8 million . In contrast , the median net worth of families in lower tiers of wealth decreased by at least 20 % . Families in the second-lowest fifth experienced a 39 % loss ( from $ 32,100 in 2007 to $ 19,500 in 2016 ) .
These are among the key findings from a 21-nation survey conducted by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project from March 17-April 20 . The survey also finds that global publics are sharing their views online about a variety of topics , especially popular culture . Across 20 of the nations polled ( Pakistan is excluded from this calculation due to the small number of social networking users ) , a median of 67 % of social networkers say they use these sites to share opinions about music and movies . Significant numbers also post their views on community issues , sports and politics . Fewer give their opinions about religion .
Given other economic and environmental problems , however , education is not high on the minds of the Chinese public . In our 2013 survey , only 24 % in China said education was a very big problem , which lagged far behind those who identified rising prices ( 59 % ) , corrupt officials ( 53 % ) and the gap between the rich and the poor ( 52 % ) as major problems . However , the issue has picked up steam since 2008 , when only 11 % said education was a very big problem .
Ukraine 's new governing coalition recently announced its intention to pass a law against joining military alliances , which will fulfill Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych 's campaign promise to prevent Ukraine from becoming a member in NATO . The new president 's opponents in parliament argue that this new strategy may result in pushing Ukraine back into the Russian `` sphere of influence '' and out of the European fold . However , Yanukovych 's move to ban Ukraine from joining NATO is not without a base of public support . A September 2009 survey by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project , found that half of Ukrainians ( 51 % ) opposed their country 's admission to NATO , while only 28 % favored such a step . Moreover , given the opposition to membership , it is not surprising that about half of Ukrainians ( 51 % ) gave NATO an unfavorable rating .
Two years after the Supreme Court decision that required states to recognize same-sex marriages nationwide , support for allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally is at its highest point in over 20 years of Pew Research Center polling on the issue . By a margin of nearly two-to-one ( 62 % to 32 % ) , more Americans now say they favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry than say they are opposed . The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted June 8 - 18 among 2,504 adults finds striking increases in support for same-sex marriage among some demographic and partisan groups that , until recently , had broadly opposed it , including :
Because unauthorized immigrants tend to have less education than people born in the U.S. or legal immigrants , they are more likely to hold low-skilled jobs and less likely to be in white-collar occupations ; further , their status limits job opportunities . Consequently , unauthorized immigrants tend to be overrepresented in certain sectors of the economy . Of all unauthorized immigrant workers , 22 % are in services ( professional , business and other3 ) , 18 % in the leisure and hospitality sector and 16 % in construction ( Table 1 ) . These three industry sectors encompass 55 % of unauthorized workers but only 31 % of U.S.-born workers . Manufacturing ( 13 % ) and agriculture ( 5 % ) also have relatively large shares of the unauthorized immigrant workforce . ( Data on the composition of all major industries are shown in Appendix Table A8 . ) The industry concentrations of unauthorized immigrants vary across the states , depending , in part , on the countries of origin of the immigrants and the nature of each state 's economy . We produced estimates of the number of unauthorized immigrant workers by industry in 43 states and the District of Columbia where there are enough unauthorized immigrants in the workforce to provide reliable data . The leisure and hospitality industry has the most unauthorized immigrant workers in 14 states and the District of Columbia , construction does in 11 states and manufacturing does in 11 states . The states where leisure and hospitality is the largest sector for unauthorized immigrants tend to be in the West or Northeast ( plus , not surprisingly , Florida ) . The states where manufacturing is the largest tend to be in the Midwest , and the construction-dominated states tend to be in the South . ( Appendix Table A2 shows the largest three major industries in each state together with the share of the state 's unauthorized immigrant workers in the industry . ) Looked at another way—using the unauthorized-immigrant share of each industry 's workforce—the picture of industry concentration changes somewhat . In almost half of the states ( 21 of 43 ) , agriculture is the industry with the largest share of total workers who are unauthorized immigrants ; in 10 other states , agriculture is the industry with the second largest share who are unauthorized immigrants . These 31 states are spread in all regions of the country . The agriculture industry ranks first in this regard in every Western state for which data are available , except Alaska and Nevada ; in Nevada , it ranks second . The construction industry is also one where the share of workers who are unauthorized immigrants tends to be large ( first in 10 states and the District of Columbia , second in 15 and third in nine ) . As with numbers of unauthorized immigrant workers , the states where the construction industry workforce has the largest share of unauthorized immigrants tend to be in the South . ( Appendix Table A4 shows the three major industries in each state that have the largest shares of their workers who are unauthorized immigrants . ) Because they are so concentrated in certain major occupation groups , unauthorized immigrants are a high proportion of workers in some more detailed categories . For example , 26 % of farmworkers are unauthorized immigrants , as are 17 % of building , groundskeeping and maintenance workers , and 14 % of construction workers . Unauthorized immigrants also are overrepresented as a share of food preparation workers and servers ( 11 % ) , production workers ( 9 % ) and transportation and material moving workers ( 7 % ) compared with their overall presence in the labor force .
About one-in-ten adolescents , or around 2.6 million , have experienced major depression in the past year , according to 2013 data reported by NIMH ; for 7.7 % , their depression caused severe impairment . Depression was three times as common among teen girls as teen boys ( 16.2 % versus 5.3 % ) . Among racial and ethnic groups , mixed-race teens were the most likely to report a major depressive episode in the previous year ( 13 % ) ; native American teens were least likely to report depression ( 4.5 % ) .
Previous research has shown that when people decide whether to speak out about an issue , they rely on reference groups—friendships and community ties—to weigh their opinion relative to their peers . In the survey , we asked respondents about their sense of whether different groups of people in their lives agreed or disagreed with their positions on the Snowden leaks . There was some notable variance between those who feel they know the views of their peers and those who do not know what others think . Generally , the more socially close people were—e.g . spouses or family members—the more likely it was that the respondents felt their views matched . We again calculated how likely it was that someone would be willing to share their views in different settings , depending on their sense of whether their audience agreed with them . We found that , in the case of Snowden 's revelations about the NSA , it was clear that if people felt their audience supported them , they were more likely to say they would join a conversation : Those who do not feel that their Facebook friends or Twitter followers agree with their opinion are more likely to self-censor their views on the Snowden-NSA story in many circumstances—in social media and in face-to-face encounters .
Broadly speaking , older people across the 14 countries are more concerned by security threats . In the case of terrorism , for instance , a median of 72 % among those ages 50 and older say it is a major threat , compared with 53 % among those who are 18 to 29 . Similar age gaps appear in concerns about cyberattacks and the spread of nuclear weapons .
What we found – perhaps not surprisingly – is that , in general , feelings of political `` losing '' are associated with higher levels of anger toward government . Among those who say their side loses more than it wins politically , 27 % are angry at the federal government – three times the percentage among those who feel like their side wins more frequently ( 9 % ) .
For the nation as a whole , average weekly wages rose by 7.4 % in real terms between 2000 and 2015 . Most of that gain came after the 2007 - 09 Great Recession ended : In the third quarter of last year , the average weekly wage was $ 974 , up an inflation-adjusted 6.6 % from the same period in 2008 .
One of Boko Haram 's stated intentions is to make sharia , or Islamic law , the official law of the land in Nigeria . Nigerian Muslims are divided on how closely their laws should follow the Quran . Given three possible options , 38 % say their country 's laws should not be influenced by the Quran at all ; 32 % think Nigeria 's laws should strictly adhere to the teachings of the Quran ; and 24 % offer that the nation 's laws should follow the values and principles of Islam , but not strictly mirror the Quran .
The past year has been characterized by inaction on immigration reform at the federal level . The U.S. House of Representatives did not take up a bi-partisan U.S. Senate immigration reform bill passed during the summer of 2013 . And President Barack Obama 's summertime promise to use his executive powers to extend deportation relief to some of the nation 's 11.3 million unauthorized immigrants has been put on hold until after the November elections . Most Latino registered voters have heard about the president 's decision to delay any executive action on deportation relief for unauthorized immigrants , according to the survey . Two-thirds ( 68 % ) say they have heard either a lot ( 27 % ) or a little ( 41 % ) about it . But three-in-ten say they have heard nothing at all about the president 's decision . Among those who have heard about the president 's decision , the survey shows that about a third ( 35 % ) of Latino voters are either disappointed ( 26 % ) or angry ( 9 % ) about the delay . But about a quarter ( 26 % ) say they are pleased ( 19 % ) or very happy ( 7 % ) about it .
More than half of smartphone owners say they get news alerts on their phones , but few get these alerts frequently . Some 55 % of smartphone owners say they ever get news alerts on their phones ' screens , according to a 2016 Pew Research Center survey . However , few users say they receive these types of alerts often , with just 13 % of smartphone owners reporting doing this . While smartphones are becoming more integrated into our lives , many users are n't taking the necessary steps to secure their devices . A 2016 Pew Research Center survey found that 28 % of U.S. smartphone owners say they do not use a screen lock or other features to secure their phone . Although a majority of smartphone users say they have updated their phone 's apps or operating system , around four-in-ten say they only update when it 's convenient for them . But some smartphone users forgo updating their phones altogether : 14 % say they never update their phone 's operating system , while 10 % say they do n't update the apps on their phone .
When asked more generally about the ideal situation for men and women with young children – rather than about what works best for them personally – about three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 76 % ) say working full time is ideal for fathers , while just 33 % think this is the ideal situation for mothers . About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say working part time is ideal for women with young children , while 21 % say not working for pay at all is ideal for this group .
On the issue of Ukraine , and what to do about Russian activities in the Crimea and eastern Ukraine , when asked if it is more important to be tough with Russia or to have a strong economic relationship with Moscow , half of Germans voice the view it is more important to be tough . In spite of Germany 's long-standing economic and energy ties with Russia , only about a third ( 35 % ) say a strong economic relationship is more important . Notably , younger Germans ( 53 % ) , ages 18 to 29 , are much more supportive of standing up to Russia over Ukraine than are older Germans ( 36 % ) , ages 65 and older . But Americans are much more supportive of taking action against Russia than are Germans . More than half of Americans ( 54 % ) believe that U.S. policy is not tough enough on Moscow . And 59 % of Americans say the European Union is not being strong enough . At the same time , roughly six-in-ten Germans ( 62 % ) think the U.S. position with regard to Russia is too tough ( 27 % ) or about right ( 35 % ) . Similarly , 62 % of Germans believe that EU actions against Russia are too strong ( 18 % ) or about right ( 44 % ) .
The American public 's take on capitalism remains mixed , with just slightly more saying they have a positive ( 50 % ) than a negative ( 40 % ) reaction to the term . That 's largely unchanged from a 52 % to 37 % balance of opinion in April 2010 . Socialism is a negative for most Americans , but certainly not all . Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) say they have a negative reaction to the word ; 31 % have a positive reaction . Those numbers are little changed from when the question was last asked in April 2010 . These are among the findings of the latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Dec. 7 - 11 , 2011 among 1,521 adults that tests reactions to words frequently used in current political discourse . Another term in the news , libertarian , continues to receive a mixed public reaction : 38 % have a positive view , 37 % negative , and nearly a quarter ( 24 % ) have no opinion either way . Interestingly , some of the most positive views of libertarianism come from groups on both the left and the right of the political spectrum . People who agree with the Tea Party movement see libertarianism positively by a 51 % to 36 % margin , as do liberal Democrats by a 47 % to 32 % margin . And while the word libertarian receives a very positive reaction from younger Americans , older people tend to view it negatively .
When it comes to views about some potential contributing factors to gun violence , Democrats and Republicans deeply disagree over the degree to which legally obtained guns contribute to gun violence . About three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Democrats say the ease with which people can legally obtain guns contributes a great deal or fair amount to gun violence , compared with just 39 % of Republicans . By contrast , more than eight-in-ten Republicans ( 84 % ) and Democrats ( 88 % ) say the ease with which people can illegally obtain guns contributes a great deal or a fair amount to gun violence .
Looking at a different measure , 41 % say they followed the debate very closely , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index conducted July 28 - 31 among 1,001 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . That number rose steadily throughout July as the Aug. 2 deadline for a possible federal default approached . In early July , 25 % said they were following news about the debt and deficit very closely .
How do social media users discover news ? Facebook is an important source of website referrals for many news outlets , but the users who arrive via Facebook spend far less time and consume far fewer pages than those who arrive directly . The same is true of users arriving by search . Our analysis of comScore data found visitors who go to a news media website directly spend roughly three times as long as those who wind up there through search or Facebook , and they view roughly five times as many pages per month . This higher level of engagement from direct visitors is evident whether a site 's traffic is driven by search or social sharing and it has big implications for news organizations who are experimenting with digital subscriptions while endeavoring to build a loyal audience .
And indeed , our earlier analysis of the public 's relative pessimism found that partisan affiliation had an important independent influence on evaluations of the economic outlook . True , personal financial situation was at least an equally important determinant , but the link between personal finances and national outlook was strongest among Republicans who were also far more upbeat about the economic outlook than were either Democrats or independents at the time .
In terms of specific platforms , around three-fourths or more of both Millennials and Gen Xers now report using Facebook ( 84 % vs. 74 % , respectively ) . Boomers and Silents have both increased their Facebook use by double digits since 2015 . In fact , the share of Silents using Facebook has nearly doubled in the past four years , from 22 % to 37 % .
The differences are also fairly narrow when it comes information producing . For participation in an online group and content creation , today 's broadband users and experienced dial-up users who want it are about as likely ( on a typical day ) to do these things . In our surveys , online content refers to updating a Web page , updating a Web diary , or posting thoughts to a chat room or Internet group .
The economic crisis and the administration 's response continued to be the top stories last week in terms of both public interest and media coverage . About a third of Americans ( 34 % ) say they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy more closely than any other story last week , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Feb. 27-March 2 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Another 23 % list President Obama 's budget proposal – with its mix of priority shifts and new spending to address current and longer-term concerns – as their top story of the week . The crisis and efforts to stop the economic slide also dominated news coverage . According to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , 26 % of the newshole was devoted to economic storylines . Obama 's budget proposal took up another 12 % and the president 's policy speech before Congress accounted for another 10 % of the newshole .
Amid debate over which policies would do the most to improve the lives of the middle class , large percentages of Americans identify with the term – either completely or with some qualification . When asked to choose from five names for the social classes , 47 % say they are middle class , 29 % say they are lower-middle class , while 11 % say they are upper-middle class . Just 1 % say they belong in the upper class . Somewhat more ( 10 % ) place themselves at the bottom of the scale and say they are lower class .
In the U.S. , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are more likely than Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents to favor increased defense spending in Europe . However , the share among Republicans who think the U.S. 's European allies should increase their defense budgets has fallen by 14 percentage points between 2017 and 2019 . There has also been a more modest decline in this view among Democrats .
If a divide persists among the players in Washington on how to tackle the deficit , it reflects the uncertain mandate from a U.S. public that wants smaller government and to reduce the debt and deficits , but opposes many of the ideas put forward to achieve that goal . Half of the public now says it prefers a smaller government that provides fewer services . But in our October survey , only two of 12 proposals for reducing the deficit garnered majority support .
Roughly a quarter ( 27 % ) of Americans say they are following news about the government collecting Verizon phone records very closely . This is a relatively modest level of public interest . Only another 21 % say they are following this fairly closely , while about half say they are following not too ( 17 % ) or not at all ( 35 % ) closely . Interest in reports about the government tracking of e-mail and online activities is almost identical : 26 % say they are following this story very closely , 33 % not closely at all .
Most of that reading among younger adults is through digital text rather than print . About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) of 18- to 29-year-olds who prefer to read their news also prefer to get their news online ; just 10 % choose a print newspaper . The breakdown among 30- to 49-year-olds is similar . News readers who are ages 50 - 64 , on the other hand , are more evenly split between a preference for the web ( 41 % ) and print paper ( 40 % ) , while those 65 and older mostly still turn to the print paper ( 63 % ) . There is also evidence that younger adults who prefer to watch their news are beginning to make the transition to doing so on a computer rather than a television . While 57 % of 18- to 29-year-old news watchers prefer to get their news via TV , 37 % cite the web as their platform of choice . That is far more than any other age group , including double the percentage of 30- to 49-year-old news watchers .
Overall , just 36 % of the public approves of how Trump is handling negotiations over the government shutdown , including 23 % who say they strongly approve . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) disapprove of Trump 's approach to the negotiations , including 53 % who say they strongly disapprove .
This chart shows the distribution of unauthorized migrants across occupations by combinations of the CPS ' 10 `` major occupation groups '' for those migrants who are in the labor force . ( The distribution of native workers is shown in parentheses . ) Unauthorized migrants account for about 4.3 % of the civilian labor force or about 6.3 million workers out of a labor force of 146 million . ( [ Note that these data are not adjusted for persons omitted from the CPS . Were they corrected for omissions , the number of unauthorized migrants in the labor force would probably be about 675,000–700,000 . ) Although the unauthorized workers can be found throughout the workforce , they tend to be over-represented in certain occupations and industries . The next several charts attempt to identify some of these concentrations . Unauthorized workers are conspicuously sparse in white collar occupations compared with native . `` Management , business , and professional occupations '' and `` Sales and administrative support occupations '' account for over half of native workers ( 52 % ) but less than one-quarter of unauthorized workers ( 23 % ) . On the other hand , unauthorized migrants are much more likely to be in broad occupation groups that require little education or do not have licensing requirements . The share of unauthorized who work in agricultural occupations and construction and extractive occupations is about three times the share of native workers in these types of jobs .
The degree to which civic division has changed since the coronavirus emerged is itself a divisive question . When asked if their country is now more united or more divided than before the coronavirus outbreak , people in many countries are split , with a 14-country median of 46 % saying their country is more united and 48 % saying their country is more divided . ( Since the onset of the coronavirus , countries in the survey have also experienced the effects of a global recession and protests related to the death of George Floyd , a Black American killed by a White police officer in May , among other events . )
The 2018 midterm elections are still more than a year away , but the two groups at either end of the political typology are already highly motivated by the battle for congressional control . More than eight-in-ten Solid Liberals ( 84 % ) say it matters a great deal to them which party wins control of Congress next year , the highest share of any typology group . Core Conservatives are next highest , at 77 % . At this point , other groups are less engaged by the struggle for partisan control of Congress . And the drop-off is particularly notable among three groups close to the middle of the typology . On the right , fewer than half of Market Skeptic Republicans ( 44 % ) and New Era Enterprisers ( 41 % ) say it matters a great deal which party wins control of Congress ; on the left , just 44 % of Devout and Diverse say the same .
Republicans have grown increasingly negative about the impact of colleges and universities on the United States . But last year , most Republicans said that colleges do well in preparing people for good jobs in today 's economy . The change in Republicans ' views of the effect colleges and universities have on the country is striking . Currently , 58 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say colleges and universities have a negative effect on the way things are going in the country , while just 36 % say their effect is positive , according to a survey conducted last month by Pew Research Center . Just two years ago , attitudes were the reverse : a 54 % majority of Republicans and Republican leaners said colleges were having a positive effect , while 37 % said their effect was negative .
As views of overall economic news have become less negative , perceptions of news from economic sectors have improved as well . Following a week of large stock market gains , about as many say they are hearing mixed news about financial markets ( 43 % ) as say they are hearing mostly bad news ( 38 % ) . Last month , more said the news was mostly bad rather than mixed ( by 50 % to 41 % ) . In August , more than twice as many were hearing mostly bad news than mixed news ( 69 % vs. 25 % ) . With the November federal jobs report showing a drop in the unemployment rate from 9 % to 8.6 % , fewer also are hearing mostly bad news about the job situation . Still , about half ( 51 % ) say recent news about jobs has been mostly bad ; 37 % say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news and 10 % report hearing mostly good news . The percentage saying they are hearing mostly bad news about jobs has declined 13 points since last month and 23 points since August .
In the U.S. , views of China have continued to sour amid the pandemic . Around eight-in-ten Americans ( 78 % ) say the Chinese government 's initial handling of the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan is at least a fair amount to blame for the global spread of the virus . Half of Americans say the U.S. should hold China accountable for its role in the outbreak , even if it means worsening bilateral relations .
Public interest in events in Libya was far greater when NATO first launched airstrikes March – and when civil unrest first erupted in February – than it is today . In late February , 38 % said they were following the increasing violence in Libya very closely . In early April , shortly after the airstrikes began and Obama delivered a speech outlining his reasons for intervening in the conflict , 37 % tracked news about the NATO airstrikes against Libya very closely . Since the opening weeks of the military operation , interest in Libya has faded . Last week , as fighting continued and anti-government forces hunted for Gadhafi , just 17 % followed news about the situation in Libya very closely , according to Pew Research Center 's weekly News Interest Index . News coverage of Libya also was modest through much of the summer as the NATO campaign unfolded . However , coverage ramped up in late August when anti-government rebels took control of much of Tripoli . From Aug. 22 - 28 , news about the chaotic events in Libya accounted for 25 % of all coverage , the highest level since late March , according to data compiled by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . ( See From Tripoli to the East Coast , A Week of Big Events ) . That dropped significantly last week as the aftermath of Hurricane Irene and news about the economy topped coverage .
Social media helps teens feel more connected to their friends ' feelings and daily lives , and also offers teens a place to receive support from others during challenging times . But even as social media connects teens to friends ' feelings and experiences , the sharing that occurs on these platforms can have negative consequences . Sharing can veer into oversharing . Teens can learn about events and activities to which they were n't invited , and the highly curated lives of teens ' social media connections can lead them to make negative comparisons with their own lives :
Public support for the U.S. military operation in Iraq has remained strong since the capture of Saddam Hussein , despite the continuing American casualties there . Nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) feel the war was the right decision , which represents little change from December , shortly after Hussein 's capture ( 67 % ) . That event also boosted the public 's sense of progress in Iraq ; even so , fewer than a quarter ( 22 % ) say things there are going very well there .
When it comes to evaluations of how well the current U.S. immigration system is working , Asian Americans are split . 45 % say the system `` works pretty well and requires only minor changes '' while 47 % say the system `` needs to be completely rebuilt '' or `` needs major changes , '' according to a recent survey of Asian-American adults from the Pew Research Center .
As the Supreme Court 's current term concludes , public opinion is evenly divided about how the justices should interpret the Constitution when determining their rulings . Half of Americans ( 50 % ) say the Court 's rulings should be based on its understanding of what the U.S. Constitution means in current times , while about as many ( 45 % ) say rulings should be based on its understanding of what the Constitution meant as originally written .
In an April Pew Research Center survey , two-thirds of U.S. adults ( 67 % ) said serving on a jury `` is part of what it means to be a good citizen . '' Just 31 % took the opposite view and said jury duty service `` does not have much to do with being a good citizen . '' Majorities in most demographic groups connect jury duty service with good citizenship , but younger people , racial and ethnic minorities and those without a college education are less likely to do so . For example , only half of those ages 18 to 29 say jury service is part of being a good citizen , compared with seven-in-ten or more in older age groups . Blacks and Hispanics are less likely than whites to see jury duty as a part of good citizenship , as are those with a high school diploma or less when compared with people with at least some college education .
However , the turnout rate of eligible Latino voters has historically lagged that of whites and blacks by substantial margins . In 2008 , for example , 50 % of eligible Latino voters cast ballots , compared with 65 % of blacks and 66 % of whites ( Lopez and Taylor , 2009 ) .
When asked to rate the degree of long-term health risk to the average person from eating four types of foods – each with a different kind of additive introduced at some stage during food production – most Americans report at least `` some '' risk from meat from animals given hormones or antibiotics , or produce grown with pesticides , as well as food and beverages with artificial preservatives or coloring . Public concern is highest for meat from animals given antibiotics or hormones and produce grown with pesticides ( 32 % and 31 % , respectively , consider each to pose `` a great deal '' of health risk to the average person ) followed by food and beverages with artificial preservatives ( 26 % ) or artificial coloring ( 21 % ) .
What have people around the world not liked about Trump ? Our 37-nation survey in 2017 found that many did not like his personal characteristics or leadership style . Majorities said he was arrogant , intolerant and dangerous . Few considered him well-qualified or believed that he cares about ordinary people .
McCain may also have improved the GOP `` brand , '' which had steadily eroded during Bush 's second term . Half of registered voters now express a favorable opinion of the Republican Party – the party 's highest rating in three years . The Democratic Party continues to have a more favorable image ( 55 % favorable ) , but the gap between the two parties has narrowed considerably since earlier this year . Equally important , independent voters now express about the same view of both major parties : 50 % of independents have a favorable opinion of the Republican Party while 49 % feel favorably toward the Democratic Party . As recently as August , positive ratings for the Democratic Party surpassed the GOP 's by 18 points ( 56 % to 38 % ) .
On the international stage , majorities of Americans and Germans align on their mutual desire for more cooperation with the United Kingdom , France and China . On Russia , however , differences emerge . Roughly one-third of Americans ( 35 % ) want more cooperation with Russia , while nearly twice as many Germans ( 69 % ) want the same . There are also stark contrasts between the U.S. and Germany on collaboration with each other : 70 % of Americans say they want more cooperation with Germany , but only 41 % of Germans share this sentiment toward the U.S. Rather , 47 % of Germans want less cooperation with the U.S .
Instead , Pew Research Center surveys show a preference for other terms to describe identity . A 2015 survey found that 50 % of Hispanics most often describe themselves by their family 's country of origin : 23 % use the terms Latino or Hispanic , and 23 % most often describe themselves as American . As for a preference between the terms Hispanic or Latino , the survey found that 32 % of Hispanics prefer `` Hispanic , '' 15 % prefer the term `` Latino '' and the rest ( 51 % ) have no preference .
The majority of chiefs of staff to date – 19 – previously worked in other White House roles , such as deputy chief of staff or adviser to the president , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of their biographical information . This group also includes three former White House budget directors : Leon Panetta , who served as chief of staff to Bill Clinton ; Joshua Bolten , chief of staff to George W. Bush ; and Jack Lew , who served under Barack Obama . ( Lew had served as budget director twice – once under Clinton and once under Obama – before becoming Obama 's chief . )
If Latinos registered at the same rate as 2004 , then 10.0 million Latino citizens 18 and older would register to vote in 2006 . That would represent 58 % of eligible Latinos . If Latinos registered at the same rate as non-Hispanic blacks did in 2004 , then 11.5 million Latinos would register to vote in 2006 . That would represent 67 % of eligible Latinos . If Latinos registered to vote at the same rate as non-Hispanic whites did in 2004 , then 12.3 million Latinos would register to vote in 2006 . That would represent 71 % of eligible Latinos .
An estimated 1.8 million Hispanics of Dominican origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Dominicans are the fifth-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 3.3 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013 . Since 1990 , the Dominican-origin population has more than tripled , growing from 517,000 to 1.8 million over the period . At the same time , the foreign-born population of Dominican origin living in the U.S. grew by 171 % , up from 362,000 in 1990 to 982,000 in 2013 . In comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 34.6 million , or 64.1 % , of the Hispanic population in 2013 .
This revenue for local public radio comes from a range of streams , but individual giving ( which includes member revenue and major gifts ) and underwriting ( from businesses and foundations as well as other nonprofit organizations ) are two key sources of funding . Among the 123 news-oriented licensees studied here , individual giving and underwriting accounted for a combined $ 595.5 million in revenue in 2017 .
A separate survey , conducted on Pew Research Center 's nationally representative American Trends Panel , finds stark divisions between those who approve and those who disapprove of Trump 's job performance in their impressions of the president . This survey , conducted online Aug. 8 - 21 among 4,971 adults , asked respondents to describe in their own words what they like most about Trump and their biggest concern about how he is handling his job as president . For a sample of responses , see verbatim on positive and negative impressions of Trump 's presidency . Trump 's personality is mentioned quite often both positively and negatively . Among those who approve of Trump 's job performance ( 36 % of the public ) , more than half ( 54 % ) volunteer something about his personality or general approach as what they like most ; mentions of Trump 's policies or agenda are a distant second , at 14 % .
Public views of Congress as an institution are at their lowest point in over a decade . Currently , 47 % express an unfavorable opinion of Congress , while 44 % feel favorably . This marks the lowest favorability marks for Congress since the unpopular government shutdown in late 1995 . Even during the impeachment of former President Clinton , a slightly higher percentage gave Congress a favorable rating ( 48 % in January 1999 ) . And in the summer of 1994 , a few months before the GOP gained control of the House and Senate , 53 % expressed a favorable view of Congress . The growing unhappiness with Congress represents a sharp turnaround from recent years . In January 2001 , 64 % expressed a favorable view of Congress , 20 points higher than today . While there are no data on views of Congress from July 2001 to June 2004 , ratings of virtually all domestic institutions grew more favorable following the Sept. 11 terror attacks . If anything , it is likely that Congress 's image improved even more in late 2001 , making today 's negative ratings even more notable .
While Western Europeans prefer to get news from TV , it 's important to note that they tend to rely on more than one platform . Majorities in all eight Western European countries surveyed get news daily from two or more platform types . And in some countries , including Sweden and Germany , around half of adults get news daily from three or four different platforms .
Support for same-sex marriage has been growing in recent years , with half ( 50 % ) of Americans now in favor and 43 % opposed . While support is considerably lower among those who identify as white evangelical Protestant , Republican or politically conservative , support for same-sex marriage has risen even among these groups over the past decade , according to aggregated Pew Research data . For example , data from Pew Research surveys from March and May 2013 show that adults under age 30 who say they are Republican or lean Republican are much more supportive of same-sex marriage ( 54 % ) than Republicans 65 and older ( 18 % ) . At the same time , younger Republicans are much less supportive of same-sex marriage than those in the 18 - 29 age bracket who are Democrats or lean Democratic ( 54 % vs. 76 % ) .
European attitudes toward President Barack Obama remain very positive . Across the 10 EU nations polled , a median of 77 % have confidence in Obama to do the right thing in world affairs , including more than eight-in-ten in Sweden , the Netherlands , Germany and France . Europeans are somewhat less enthusiastic about Hillary Clinton , although her ratings are still mostly positive : A median of 59 % have confidence in her . In contrast , ratings for Donald Trump are overwhelmingly negative . A median of just 9 % trust the wealthy real estate developer to do the right thing in world affairs ; 85 % lack confidence in him .
These shifts are particularly pronounced among ideological partisans . In 2015 , liberal Democrats and Democratic leaners were divided in their assessments of whether their side was losing more ( 44 % ) or winning more ( 46 % ) . Today , fully 81 % of liberal Democrats say they are losing more , while just 12 % say they are winning .
After years of decline , the number of arrests made by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) climbed to a three-year high in fiscal 2017 , according to data from the agency . The biggest percentage increases were in Florida , northern Texas and Oklahoma . ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations made a total of 143,470 arrests in fiscal 2017 , a 30 % rise from fiscal 2016 . The surge began after President Donald Trump took office in late January : From his Jan. 20 inauguration to the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30 , ICE made 110,568 arrests , 42 % more than in the same time period in 2016 .
Overall , roughly six-in-ten American adults accept at least one of these New Age beliefs . Specifically , four-in-ten believe in psychics and that spiritual energy can be found in physical objects , while somewhat smaller shares express belief in reincarnation ( 33 % ) and astrology ( 29 % ) . But New Age beliefs are not necessarily replacing belief in traditional forms of religious beliefs or practices . While eight-in-ten Christians say they believe in God as described in the Bible , six-in-ten believe in one or more of the four New Age beliefs analyzed here , ranging from 47 % of evangelical Protestants to roughly seven-in-ten Catholics and Protestants in the historically black tradition .
As the public 's views of global threats have changed , so too have opinions about America 's role in solving world problems . On balance , more continue to think the United States does too much , rather than too little , to help solve world problems . But the share saying the U.S. does too little to address global problems has nearly doubled – from 17 % to 31 % – since last November , while the percentage saying it is doing too much has fallen from 51 % to 39 % .
Even before a driverless Uber vehicle struck and killed a pedestrian in Arizona this week , a slight majority of Americans said they were at least somewhat worried about the development of autonomous cars and hesitant about riding in one if given the chance . Slightly more than half of U.S. adults ( 54 % ) said in a Pew Research Center survey conducted in May 2017 that they were somewhat or very worried about the development of driverless vehicles , while 40 % said they were at least somewhat enthusiastic about it . A majority of U.S. adults ( 56 % ) also said they would not personally want to ride in a driverless car if they had the opportunity , compared with 44 % who would .
In the latest survey , 58 % say they are hearing mostly bad economic news while 39 % say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news . In August , more than twice as many said economic news was mostly bad than said it was mixed ( 67 % vs. 30 % ) .
In Germany – and in several of its Western European neighbors – attitudes toward the U.S. have followed a clear pattern over the past decade and a half . President George W. Bush was not very popular at the outset of his presidency , and he grew less so over the next few years , amid widespread German opposition to key elements of his foreign policy . This in turn had a negative impact on America 's overall image in the country . President Obama , in contrast , was extremely well-regarded ( although his ratings did decline somewhat following the NSA eavesdropping scandal ) , and this coincided with an improvement in attitudes toward the U.S. Today , German confidence in Trump is low , and U.S. favorability is near where it was at the end of the Bush years . Over the past decade , U.S. presidents have gotten mixed or negative reviews in Mexico , but at 5 % Donald Trump registers the lowest confidence rating of any U.S. leader in Mexico since Pew Research Center began surveying there . This 5 % rating is also the lowest among the 37 nations polled in 2017 . The proposed wall between the U.S. and Mexico has been a high-profile position for Trump since he declared his candidacy for president , and more than nine-in-ten Mexicans oppose it . U.S. favorability has typically been higher than confidence in the American president in Mexico . That remains the case this year , although the share of the public with a positive view of the U.S. has dropped steeply since 2015 . Trump receives dramatically lower ratings than his predecessor in Canada . And for the first time since the Center began polling in Canada , the share of Canadians expressing a favorable opinion of their neighbor to the south has slipped to below 50 % . Just 43 % of Canadians now have a positive view of the U.S .
Somewhat fewer ( 70 % ) say it is very important for Congress to reduce the federal budget deficit . Nearly as many ( 66 % ) see addressing the country 's energy needs as very important , while 63 % say the same about addressing immigration policy . About half ( 53 % ) say it is very important for Congress to pass legislation that would more strictly regulate financial institutions and markets .
The Bonnie-and-Clyde/John Dillinger era of celebrity gangsters had ended a couple of years earlier and in 1936 - 7 , Americans were generally as tough on crime as they are now : 60 % favored the death penalty — though among these only a quarter supported capital punishment for persons younger than age 21 . As now , Americans in the 1930s worried about immigrants , whether legal or not , taking jobs from native-born Americans : Two in three thought `` aliens on relief '' should be sent back to their `` own countries . ''
The nation 's aggregate wealth continued to show signs of recovery , ascending to $ 81.5 trillion as of June 30 , after bottoming out at $ 55 trillion in 2009 , according to a new Federal Reserve report released Thursday . The Fed 's aggregate wealth figures , which measure the total net worth of all U.S. households and nonprofits , suggest that inflation-adjusted wealth per household has significantly increased since 2009 ( roughly growing 29 % ) and has surpassed its pre-Recession peak . ( The chart to the right does not show these figures adjusted for inflation or number of households . )
Black Democrats also are more likely than other Democrats to say morality is linked to a belief in God . A 55 % majority of black Democrats say `` it is necessary to believe in God in order to be moral , '' while 44 % say it is not necessary . By contrast , a large majority of white Democrats ( 89 % ) and a narrower majority of Hispanic Democrats ( 57 % ) say a belief in God is not necessary to be moral .
Japanese views of their neighbor China have also improved somewhat over time , but from a very low base . Just 17 % of the public holds a favorable impression of China , up 12 points from a low of 5 % in 2013 . Unfavorable opinion of Beijing has fallen 15 points since then , to 78 % .
The overall surge in the number of foreign college graduates participating in OPT is largely attributable to a 400 % increase in STEM graduates approved to temporarily work in the U.S. since 2008 .
The net standstill in Mexican-U.S. migration flows is the result of two opposite trend lines that have converged in recent years . During the five-year period from 2005 to 2010 , a total of 1.4 million Mexicans immigrated to the United States , down by more than half from the 3 million who had done so in the five-year period of 1995 to 2000 . Meantime , the number of Mexicans and their children who moved from the U.S. to Mexico between 2005 and 2010 rose to 1.4 million , roughly double the number who had done so in the five-year period a decade before . While it is not possible to say so with certainty , the trend lines within this latest five-year period suggest that return flow to Mexico probably exceeded the inflow from Mexico during the past year or two . Of the 1.4 million people who migrated from the U.S. to Mexico since 2005 , including about 300,000 U.S.-born children , most did so voluntarily , but a significant minority were deported and remained in Mexico . Firm data on this phenomenon are sketchy , but Pew Hispanic Center estimates based on government data from both countries suggest that 5 % to 35 % of these returnees may not have moved voluntarily .
Muslims are the fastest-growing religious group in the world . The growth and regional migration of Muslims , combined with the ongoing impact of the Islamic State ( also known as ISIS or ISIL ) and other extremist groups that commit acts of violence in the name of Islam , have brought Muslims and the Islamic faith to the forefront of the political debate in many countries . Yet many facts about Muslims are not well known in some of these places , and most Americans – who live in a country with a relatively small Muslim population – have said they know little or nothing about Islam . There were 1.8 billion Muslims in the world as of 2015 – roughly 24 % of the global population – according to a Pew Research Center estimate . But while Islam is currently the world 's second-largest religion ( after Christianity ) , it is the fastest-growing major religion . Indeed , if current demographic trends continue , the number of Muslims is expected to exceed the number of Christians by the end of this century .
Because of the COVID-19 downturn , the share of men overall who are working is at a record low . Among women , the share who are working is the lowest since the mid-1980s , when labor force participation among women was much lower and still on the rise . In September 2020 , 49.2 % of women ages 16 and older were employed and at work , down from 54.0 % in September 2019 . Among men , the share who are active decreased from 65.3 % in September 2019 to 60.5 % in September 2020 , the lowest on record since 1976 , when data first became available .
While a median of 53 % across the same countries also see Iran playing a more important role , fewer in the region say that Israel and Saudi Arabia have gained influence in the past 10 years . The only country the surveyed publics see as less influential a decade on is Egypt .
While internet access is lagging in India , cell phone usage is much more prevalent , with 77 % of the population owning a mobile device . About half of Indians who own a cell phone use them to send text messages , but only 37 % use the devices to take pictures or video . Even smaller shares of mobile phone owners use the devices to access a social networking site ( 9 % ) or to get political news and information ( 8 % ) . These figures are well below the median percentages that we found in other emerging and developing countries .
There are notable demographic , educational and political differences over the war evident in the survey . Substantial majorities of men in every age group ­ no fewer than seven-in-ten ­ think it was the right decision to go to war . Opinion among women varies widely by age , with the oldest and youngest women least likely to support the war . Only about half of women age 75 and older ­ and a similar proportion of those below the age of 25 ( 52 % ) ­ back the decision to go to war . Among women in all other age groups , at least six-in-ten agree with that decision . The gender gap in support for war in Iraq is especially large among the youngest and oldest respondents . In the youngest group ­ ages 18 - 24 ­ just over half of women ( 52 % ) say the U.S. made the right decision in going to war , while 82 % of men feel this way ( a gap of 30 points ) . And among those ages 25 - 29 , the gap is 21 points ( men 85 % , women 64 % ) . At the other end of the age spectrum , there also is a large gender gap ( 23 points ) . More than seven-in-ten men ( 73 % ) age 75 and older say the U.S. made the right decision , compared with only 50 % of women . But unlike the youngest women , 44 % of whom think war was the wrong decision , older women are no more opposed to military action than their male counterparts . Women age 75 and older are simply much less likely than men to express an opinion about the war at all .
The focus on prices has risen across party lines , as 32 % of Democrats , 28 % of independents , and 22 % of Republicans now say that rising prices represent their top economic worry today . And the share citing jobs as their number one concern is down across party lines , particularly among Republicans ( 26 % ) and independents ( 33 % ) . The job situation remains the broadest concern among Democrats ( 41 % ) , though this , too , is down from 56 % in December .
Many voters – including many of her supporters – doubt Clinton will change Washington much . Overall , about half ( 53 % ) of voters in our June survey say Clinton wo n't change the way things work in Washington much . Those who think she will change Washington are divided on whether it will be for the better ( 20 % ) or the worse ( 25 % ) . Even voters who say they will support Clinton in a matchup against Trump this fall say she 's unlikely to bring much change to the way things work in Washington . Well over half ( 58 % ) say this , while another 38 % say she will bring positive change . Trump 's supporters are roughly evenly divided between those who say she would make things worse ( 52 % ) and those who say things would n't change much under a Clinton administration ( 46 % ) .
Roughly four-in-ten adults ( 41 % ) say they are very worried about climate change when they think about the future . Young adults are significantly more concerned about this than their older counterparts : 52 % of those ages 18 to 29 are very worried , compared with 41 % of those ages 30 to 49 and 37 % of those 50 and older .
While the job situation is the top economic concern , the percentage citing rising prices as their biggest economic worry has nearly doubled from 15 % in December to 28 % today . And at 24 % , the number saying the federal budget deficit is their top concern also has risen , from 19 % in December and February .
In the decade from 2000 to 2010 , the Mexican-American population grew by 7.2 million as a result of births and 4.2 million as a result of new immigrant arrivals . This is a change from the previous two decades when the number of new immigrants either matched or exceeded the number of births .
See the most recent estimates of the U.S. unauthorized immigrant population , published June 12 , 2019 . The number of unauthorized immigrants living in the United States in 2015 fell below the total at the end of the Great Recession for the first time , with Mexicans continuing to represent a declining share of this population , according to new Pew Research Center estimates based on government data . There were 11 million unauthorized immigrants living in the U.S. in 2015 , a small but statistically significant decline from the Center 's estimate of 11.3 million for 2009 , the last year of the Great Recession . The Center 's preliminary estimate of the unauthorized immigrant population in 2016 is 11.3 million , which is statistically no different from the 2009 or 2015 estimates and comes from a different data source with a smaller sample size and a larger margin of error . This more recent preliminary data for 2016 are inconclusive as to whether the total unauthorized immigrant population continued to decrease , held steady or increased .
For the first time , the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project has found that cell phone ownership among adults has exceeded 90 % . Cell phones are now being used by 91 % of adults , according to the survey conducted between April 17 and May 19 of 2,252 adults .
Despite an extended economic downturn , the public 's impression of whether the nation is economically divided remains relatively stable . While 45 % say American society is divided between `` haves '' and `` have-nots , '' 52 % say it is incorrect to think of the country this way . This is comparable to the balance of opinion a year ago .
Venezuelans on the political left are consistently more supportive of government policies , more positive on Maduro and less concerned about major problems affecting the country compared with people on the political right . The left-leaning are also more keen to follow former President Hugo Chávez 's policies and want Maduro ( who was vice president under Chávez ) to do the same . And people on the political left are more positive about the direction of the country . Still , fewer than half on the left say the country is on the right path . Meanwhile , Chávez 's legacy continues to loom . When asked whether their country should follow Chávez 's policies , 43 % of the public says yes , while just about half ( 52 % ) say that Venezuela should not follow his policies .
Americans are somewhat divided on their biggest fear . While many name inequality ( 27 % ) , around a quarter also see religious and ethnic hatred ( 24 % ) and the spread of nuclear weapons ( 23 % ) as top threats . But as with many issues in the U.S. , there is a party divide . Republicans are more likely than Democrats to name ethnic hatred as a top concern . And Democrats are more apt to name the gap between the rich and the poor as the greatest danger . Independents are more divided .
U.S. adults ' views on the impact of immigrants on American society also differ depending on where immigrants are from . Some 47 % of U.S. adults say immigrants from Asia have had a mostly positive impact on American society , and 44 % say the same about immigrants from Europe . Meanwhile , half of Americans say the impact of immigrants from Africa has been neither positive nor negative . However , Americans are more likely to hold negative views about the impact of immigrants from Latin America and the Middle East . In the case of Latin American immigrants , 37 % of American adults say their impact on American society has been mostly negative , 35 % say their impact is neither positive nor negative , and just 26 % say their impact on American society has been positive . For immigrants from the Middle East , views are similar—39 % of U.S. adults say their impact on American society has been mostly negative , 39 % say their impact has been neither positive nor negative , and just 20 % say their impact has been mostly positive on U.S. society .
The public continued to track stories about swine flu and its vaccine last week , with news about the flu trailing only health care reform in terms of public interest . About a third ( 32 % ) followed news about swine flu very closely and 20 % name it their top story of the week . Women ( 39 % very closely ) were more likely to follow this story than men ( 25 % very closely ) . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) followed news about a boy thought to be on a runaway balloon very closely . Some 14 % say the balloon drama was their top story of the week . Only modest interest was paid to news about recent gains in the stock market , as the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed above 10,000 points for the first time in more than a year . Some 15 % followed stock market news very closely and 6 % named it their top story . Interest in the stock market eclipsing 10,000 points was much lower than it was in mid-October of 2008 , when the Dow fell below 10,000 points in the midst of a steep decline . A News Interest Index survey conducted October 10 - 13 , 2008 found 59 % paying very close attention to `` recent major drops in the U.S. stock market . ''
Smart speakers such as Amazon Echo or Google Home have gained popularity over the last several years , and consumer experts found that these devices were especially popular with holiday season gift buyers last year . But even as some Americans are integrating these devices into their homes , many owners express concerns over data collection and personalization , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 3 - 17 , 2019 . Just over half of smart speaker owners are at least somewhat concerned about the amount of data collected by these devices . Some 54 % of smart speaker owners ( which amounts to 13 % of all U.S. adults ) say they are very or somewhat concerned about the amount of personal data their speakers collect . Though smart speaker ownership varies , privacy concerns among those who have these devices are mostly similar across demographic groups .
Overall , 72 % of U.S. adults say social media companies have too much power and influence in politics today , according to the June 16 - 22 survey . Far fewer Americans believe the amount of political power these companies hold is about the right amount ( 21 % ) or not enough ( 6 % ) . Majorities of both Republicans and Democrats believe social media companies wield too much power , but Republicans are particularly likely to express this view . Roughly eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 82 % ) think these companies have too much power and influence in politics , compared with 63 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . Democrats , on the other hand , are more likely than Republicans to say these companies have about the right amount of power and influence in politics ( 28 % vs. 13 % ) . Small shares in both parties believe these companies do not have enough power .
One of the most persistent gaps between blacks and whites involves their levels of confidence in police , according to an August survey . In surveys dating back to 1995 , the share of whites saying the police do a good job of enforcing the law consistently has been significantly higher than that of blacks , and that past and present divide shows up in related questions on police conduct . When asked specifically about confidence in police to not use excessive force on suspects , 36 % of whites express a great deal of confidence compared with 18 % of blacks . Conversely , 40 % of blacks express very little confidence in the police on this score compared with 11 % of whites who see things this way . And when people of both races are asked about their confidence in police around the country to treat people of both races equally , 35 % of whites express great confidence compared with 17 % of blacks . About half ( 46 % ) of blacks express very little confidence compared with just 12 % of whites . On this measure too , the disparate opinions of whites and blacks have remained consistent over time .
By 56 % to 15 % , Indians express a favorable , rather than unfavorable , view of the United States , with 28 % offering no opinion . Meanwhile , Indians are roughly divided in their attitude toward China ( 35 % favorable vs. 41 % unfavorable ) . And , by a margin of 21 percentage points , they are more positively disposed toward the United States then they are toward China . By nearly four-to-one ( 47 % to 12 % ) Indians say the United States is today the world 's leading economic power rather than China . However , a third of Indians say China has already replaced or will eventually replace the United States as the world 's leading superpower , possibly a reflection of Beijing 's growing strategic as well as economic influence . Yet Indians are less likely than publics in many countries to see China 's rising hegemony as inevitable , according to a separate Pew Research Center survey in spring 2013 .
Some attitudes are commonly shared across the major multiracial groups . Fully six-in-ten multiracial Americans , including large shares across each of the major multiracial groups , say they are proud of their mixed racial background , and about the same percentage say their background has left them more open to different cultures . And most multiracial Americans , like other minorities , have experienced some form of racial discrimination ranging from racial slurs to physical threats .
Public views of Republican leaders ' policies , which were nearly two-to-one positive in the month after the election ( 52 % approve , 28 % disapprove ) , turned negative just eight months later . In August 1995 , 38 % approved GOP leaders ' proposals while 45 % disapproved . Notably , these opinions did not change much over the following year – including through the period of the two government shutdowns .
Since 2013 , deficit reduction has fallen as a top priority among both Republicans and Democrats . Today , 54 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents and 44 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say reducing the deficit should be a top priority for President Donald Trump and Congress . Six years ago , about eight-in-ten Republicans ( 81 % ) said reducing the deficit should be a top priority and about two-thirds of Democrats ( 65 % ) agreed .
The new survey , conducted Jan. 10 - 15 among 1,503 adults , finds that 29 % say the tax law will have a mostly positive effect on them and their families , while nearly as many ( 27 % ) say its effect will be mostly negative . A third say the law will not have much of a personal impact . Opinions also are divided about the tax law 's impact on the country as a whole : 35 % say the law will have a mostly positive effect on the country , 40 % a mostly negative effect and 15 % say it will have little effect .
Looking at other news , nearly one-in-ten ( 8 % ) say they followed reports about the death of Elizabeth Edwards more closely than any other major story . The death of Sen. John Edwards ' estranged wife accounted for 5 % of coverage , according to PEJ . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about Elizabeth Edwards ' death very closely , nearly matching the 17 % that said in March 2007 they very closely followed the announcement that her breast cancer had returned . About one-in-ten ( 8 % ) say they followed news about the current situation and events in Afghanistan most closely last week . About a quarter ( 24 % ) say they followed Afghanistan news very closely , a number similar to other weeks this fall in which Afghanistan was included on the NII survey . News about Afghanistan accounted for 4 % of coverage . Three-in-ten Republicans ( 30 % ) followed this news very closely , compared with 21 % of Democrats . A quarter of independents ( 25 % ) say they followed Afghanistan news very closely .
Argentines express little trust in elected officials and public institutions . One-in-five ( 20 % ) agree that the state is run for the benefit of all people and that most elected officials care what people like themselves think ( 21 % ) . Adults ages 18 to 29 are less likely than those 50 and older to agree that the government is run for the benefit of all people ( 16 % vs. 26 % ) . Those with a favorable view of Cambiemos are also more likely to agree that the state works for everyone ( 39 % ) than those with unfavorable views ( 13 % ) . Despite the dissatisfaction with aspects of the political system , Argentines are optimistic about democratic participation – 55 % say that voting gives people like themselves some say in how the government runs things .
Teens also use a wide range of communication tools to get in touch with their closest friend . Nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) of teens have access to a smartphone , and smartphone-using teens have different practices for communicating with close friends . Teens with smartphones rely more heavily on texting , while teens without smartphones are more likely to say social media and phone calls are preferred modes for reaching their closest friend .
Roughly two-thirds of Latino registered voters ( 68 % ) say they are fearful about the state of the nation . Meanwhile , 45 % of Latino voters say they are hopeful . These views are similar to those reported in June , and similar to those among U.S. voters overall . Latino voters across demographic groups express similar levels of fear when thinking about the state of the country . By contrast , levels of hope for the country among Latino voters vary by gender and education levels . About half of Hispanic men registered to vote ( 51 % ) say they feel hopeful about the state of the country , compared with only 36 % of Hispanic women voters . Meanwhile , 37 % of Hispanic voters with a bachelor 's degree or more say the feel hopeful , while 47 % of Hispanic voters with some college experience or less say the same .
Overall , about a third of all Americans with children under 18 at home have a gun in their household , including 34 % of families with children younger than 12 . That 's nearly identical to the share of childless adults or those with older children who have a firearm at home .
Despite some well-publicized examples in which facial recognition technologies have misidentified individual people or struggled to recognize certain types of faces , most Americans consider these tools to be relatively effective . Roughly three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 73 % ) think facial recognition technologies are at least somewhat effective at accurately identifying individual people . Smaller majorities think these tools are effective at accurately assessing someone 's gender ( 63 % ) or race ( 61 % ) .
More generally , there is little evidence that a more positively regarded U.S. president has spurred further declines in support for terrorism in Muslim countries . Pew Global Attitudes surveys over the last few years have found many fewer Muslims than earlier in the decade saying that suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilians are justified to defend Islam from its enemies . However , support for suicide bombing has not fallen further over the past year .
Today 's young adults ( Millennials ages 21 to 36 in 2017 ) are much better educated than the Silent Generation . The educational trajectory of young women across the generations has been especially steep . Among Silent Generation women , only 9 % had completed at least four years of college when they were young . By comparison , Millennial women are four times ( 36 % ) as likely as their Silent predecessors were to have at least a bachelor 's degree at the same age . Educational gains are not limited to women , as Millennial men are also better educated than earlier generations of young men . Three-in-ten Millennial men ( 29 % ) have at least a bachelor 's degree , compared with 15 % of their young Silent counterparts . These higher levels of educational attainment at ages 21 to 36 suggest that Millennials – especially Millennial women – are on track to be our most educated generation by the time they complete their educational journeys .
Muslims in Lebanon are also less likely to identify primarily with their religion , rather than with their country , with equal numbers saying they think of themselves first as Muslim ( 30 % ) and saying they identify primarily as Lebanese ( 30 % ) . Elsewhere , majorities or pluralities of Muslims identify more strongly with Islam than with their nationality — in many cases by lopsided proportions . Even in Turkey — a country with a long-running tradition of secularism — Muslim identifiers outnumber those who identify primarily as Turks by 13 percentage points . Moreover , Lebanese Muslims are less concerned about the global role of Islam — just under half ( 47 % ) say it is very important for Islam to play a more important and influential role on the world stage . In contrast , 84 % of Muslims in Morocco and 73 % in Jordan would like to see Islam play a major role . Only Turkish Muslims , at 43 % , show less interest in Islam 's global influence .
Most Americans say they have achieved the `` American dream '' or are on their way to achieving it . Just 17 % of Americans say the American dream is `` out of reach '' for their family , according to an August 2017 survey .
Fewer members of Congress have prior military experience than in the past . As the share of Americans who are veterans has declined , so has the share of Congress members who have previously served in the military . In the current Congress , 20 % of senators and 19 % of representatives had prior military service , down drastically from just a few decades ago . The share of senators who are veterans reached a post-Korean War peak of 81 % in 1975 , while the share among House members peaked in 1967 at 75 % . However , there are signs more veterans could run for office in the future .
Facebook remains the most used social media site among American teens ages 13 to 17 with 71 % of all teens using the site , even as half of teens use Instagram and four-in-ten use Snapchat .
Although Lebanese Muslims consider Islam an important part of their lives , they place less emphasis on their faith than do Muslims elsewhere . In the six predominantly Islamic countries surveyed , Muslims in Lebanon are the least likely to say religion is very important in their life — just over half ( 54 % ) say religion is very important , compared with 69 % of Muslims in Turkey , 86 % in Jordan , and more than 90 % in Indonesia , Pakistan , and Morocco .
Overall , two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Americans say there is solid evidence that the earth has been getting warmer . These views have changed very little in the last few years . Far more see solid evidence of global warming than did so between 2009 and early 2011 . But when the Pew Research Center first asked this question in 2006 , 77 % said there was solid evidence that the average temperature on earth had been increasing . Since 2009 , there has been a steady increase in the share of both Republicans and Democrats who say there is solid evidence of global warming . In 2009 , 35 % of Republicans , 53 % of independents and 75 % of Democrats said there was solid evidence of rising temperatures on earth . Today , half of Republicans ( 50 % ) , 62 % of independents and 88 % of Democrats say this . However , fewer Republicans and independents have this view than in 2006 ; at that time , 59 % of Republicans and 79 % of independents said there was solid evidence of rising global temperatures .
As Turkey prepares to vote for its first ever directly elected president , a new Pew Research Center survey finds the Turkish public is divided over the main contender for the office , current Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan . But on a number of issues , Turks are almost evenly split between those who are happy with Erdogan 's leadership and the state of the nation , and those who believe the former Istanbul mayor is leading the country down the wrong path . Overall , 44 % are satisfied with the country 's direction , while 51 % are dissatisfied . Half say the economy is doing well , while 46 % think it is in bad shape . Forty-eight percent say Erdogan is having a good influence on the country ; the same percentage believes he is having a negative impact .
More than four-in-ten Americans ( 44 % ) say they followed reports about the U.S. economy very closely last week , which is little changed from recent weeks . News organizations , meanwhile , devoted 12 % of the newshole to the economic crisis , as measured by PEJ . That figure does not include 5 % of coverage devoted to new credit card regulations enacted into law last week in Washington . Interest in that story was measured separately in this survey . Public attention to economic news peaked as the financial crisis deepened last fall . In the last week of September , 70 % said they were following economic news very closely – the highest ever in a Pew Research survey . Since then , interest has fluctuated depending on events ; this year , interest peaked at 57 % in late January .
But has the pope 's popularity produced a Catholic resurgence in the U.S. , where 10 % of adults are former Catholics ? Not so far , at least in terms of the share of Americans who identify as such , or the share of those who report attending Mass weekly . A new analysis of pooled Pew Research surveys conducted between Francis ' election in March and the end of October this year finds that the percentage of Americans who identify as Catholics has remained the same – 22 % — as it was during the corresponding seven-month period in 2012 . In fact , our polls going back to 2007 show Catholic identification in the U.S. has held stable , fluctuating only between 22 % and 23 % .
A related trend is the sharp rise in news coverage of the stock market , which reflects this growing public interest in such news . An analysis of Wall Street coverage since 1990 by selected news organizations ( CBS Evening News , Newsweek and The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer ) shows that through 1996 , these outlets covered an average of about 100 stories on the stock market each year ( aside from brief market updates ) . The number rose dramatically to well over 200 per year beginning in 1997 . Although the market has always generated news when it boomed or crashed ( such as in 1987 or 1998 ) , the high level of coverage since 1997 has persisted . The trend is evident in both print and broadcast media .
National pride has reached new heights in Russia . The percentage of Russians who say they have a very favorable image of their own country has continued to climb , from 29 % in 2013 , to 51 % in 2014 , to 63 % today – the highest it has been in Pew Research Center polling since first asked in 2007 . Roughly seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) also say it is a bad thing that the Soviet Union dissolved .
In a sharp contrast from four years ago , a large majority of Republicans say their side has been winning more often than it has been losing politically , while Democrats overwhelmingly say their side has been on the losing end more frequently . Today , 69 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say that on the issues that matter to them , their side has been winning more often than losing , according to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted Feb. 4 - 15 among 6,395 adults . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , just 18 % think their side has been winning , while 80 % say their side has been losing more often . Among all adults , 56 % say that on the issues that matter to them , their side has been losing more often than winning , while 41 % say their side has been winning more often than losing . The share saying their side is losing more often than winning has declined 11 percentage points since 2018 , largely because of the change among Republicans .
There are wide racial and educational differences in opinions about how the Senate should deal with the vacancy created by Scalia 's death . Fully 82 % of African Americans say the Senate should hold hearings and vote on Obama 's nominee for the high court . Just half ( 50 % ) of whites agree , while 44 % say the Senate should not hold hearings until the next president selects a court nominee . By more than four to one ( 77 % to 18 % ) , those with postgraduate degrees say the Senate should hold hearings and vote on Obama 's nominee , rather than delaying action until the next president fills the court vacancy . Majorities of those with college degrees ( 60 % ) and some college experience ( 55 % ) also favor the Senate acting on Obama 's choice for the high court .
As they attempt political comebacks , Eliot Spitzer , Anthony Weiner and Mark Sanford all are hoping they can put behind them the headlines about the misdeeds that forced them from office . And , those headlines were numerous : the amount of news coverage their misdeeds attracted ranked among the top five political scandals of recent years .
While the number of Americans citing the economy as the nation 's largest problem has increased in the past year , it is far from a record high , even in the post-Iraq era . Over the past two decades , 1992 still represents the peak public concern about the economy . In January of that year fully 76 % cited an economic problem as the most important facing the nation . But a more recent peak occurred in the spring of 2003 — just a month after U.S. forces invaded Iraq . In April of 2003 , 41 % of Americans saw the economy as the nation 's biggest problem , while just 14 % cited the situation in Iraq .
Overall , a 63 % majority of Americans say the scientific method generally produces sound conclusions . But , here too , Democrats have more confidence than Republicans . Seven-in-ten Democrats see the scientific method as generally sound . A smaller majority of Republicans ( 55 % ) say the same , while 44 % believe the scientific method can be used to produce any conclusion the researcher wants .
This year more Hispanics in Florida are registered as Democrats ( 513,252 ) than as Republicans ( 445,526 ) . As recently as 2006 , the reverse was true : among Latino registered voters in Florida , more were Republican ( 414,185 ) than Democratic ( 369,906 ) . According to the Florida Department of State Division of Elections , Latinos make up 12 % of all registered voters in Florida this year , up from 11 % in 2006 . Their move toward the Democratic Party is part of a broader realignment among the overall electorate of the state . Today , there are 657,775 more registered Democrats than registered Republicans in Florida . In 2006 , the Democrat registration advantage was smaller – just 283,856 .
If the narrative that polls are broken is correct , one place it is likely to manifest is in trend-lines for these fundamental concepts . Specifically , two trend lines ( one line for the benchmark high response rate survey and one line for the telephone poll ) which used to be similar back in the 1990s or early 2000s , for example , perhaps would have been expected to diverge by 2016 , as single-digit polls are no longer capable of producing unbiased estimates . This scenario is not borne out in the data . Across the quarter century span for which comparisons are available , the GSS and Center phone polls produced very similar estimates of the share of American adults identifying with the Democratic or Republican parties . Both sets of surveys measure party affiliation with a simple question asking respondents whether they are Democrat , Republican or independent .6 The average difference in point estimates across the high and lower response rate surveys is 1.4 points for Democratic identification and 1.6 points for Republican identification .
As in the past , favorability ratings for Mitch McConnell and Nancy Pelosi are more negative than positive . Only 27 % view McConnell favorably , while 45 % view him unfavorably ; about a quarter ( 28 % ) have no opinion of the Senate Majority leader . A third view Pelosi favorably , while 49 % view her unfavorably and 18 % have no opinion .
Presented with a number of reasons why they might use voice assistants , 55 % of users say `` a major reason '' they use the assistants is that these applications allow them to interact with their devices without using their hands . Smaller shares say that they use voice assistants because they are fun ( 23 % cite this as a `` major reason '' ) , because speaking to the assistant feels more natural than typing ( 22 % ) , or because these programs are easier for children to use ( 14 % ) .
The United States , another principal actor on the world stage , gets mixed reviews in China . Half give the U.S. a favorable rating , while 44 % offer a negative one . But 52 % think the U.S. is trying to prevent China from becoming an equal power ; only 29 % believe the U.S. is willing to accept China 's rise . And the Chinese public names U.S. power and influence as the top international threat facing the country . Just under half ( 45 % ) say the U.S. is a major threat – the highest percentage among the seven potential threats tested on the survey .
Western Europeans now say the U.S. does not respect the individual liberties of its people – a reversal from just a few years ago . Views shifted most notably in France , Germany , Poland , Spain and the UK – five countries that have been surveyed since 2008 . Among these countries , more now say the U.S. government does not respect the personal freedoms of its people ( a median of 57 % ) than say it does ( 40 % ) . As recently as 2013 , a median of 76 % across these nations said the U.S. does protect individual liberties , while a median of 18 % said it does not . The decline began after the National Security Agency 's spying controversy during the Obama administration .
The trend is unmistakable : Fewer Americans are reading print newspapers as more turn to the internet for their news . And while the percentage of people who read newspapers online is growing rapidly , especially among younger generations , that growth has not offset the decline in print readership . In the Pew Research Center 's 2008 news media consumption survey , 39 % said they read a newspaper yesterday — either print or online — down from 43 % in 2006 . The proportion reporting that they read just the print version of a newspaper fell by roughly a quarter , from 34 % to 25 % over the two-year period . Overall newspaper readership declined in spite of an increase in the number of people reading online newspapers : 14 % of Americans said they read a newspaper online yesterday , up from 9 % in 2006 . This includes those who said they read only a newspaper online ( 9 % in 2008 ) , as well as those who said they read both print and Web versions of a newspaper ( 5 % ) . These numbers may not include the number of people who read content produced by newspapers , but accessed through aggregation sites or portals such as Google or Yahoo .
As the People 's Republic of China celebrates the 70th anniversary of its founding , it gets mixed reviews from people around the world , according to Pew Research Center 's latest Global Attitudes survey . A median of 40 % across the 34 countries surveyed have a favorable opinion of China , compared with a median of 41 % who have an unfavorable opinion .
Though a 63 % majority of registered voters overall name treatment of racial and ethnic minorities as very important to their vote , it is not the top issue on the voters ' agenda : Eight-in-ten or more rank the economy ( 84 % ) and terrorism ( 80 % ) as very important issues to their vote . Other issues that rank highly on voters ' 2016 importance list include foreign policy ( 75 % very important ) , health care ( 74 % ) , gun policy ( 72 % ) and immigration ( 70 % ) . ( This Pew Research Center survey was conducted in late June , before the events of last week , including the shooting deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile and the deaths of five police officers in Dallas . )
About a third ( 34 % ) now say they think health care legislation will pass this year , up from 27 % one week earlier . Still , that is far below the 57 % recorded Jan. 15 - 18 , just before the special election in Massachusetts for what had been Ted Kennedy 's seat in the U.S. Senate . Immediately after Republican Scott Brown won the Jan. 19 vote , the percentage saying they thought a health care bill would pass this year plummeted to about a quarter ( 27 % Jan. 22 - 25 ) . Following the White House health care summit that included President Obama and lawmakers from both parties , about a third of Americans ( 34 % ) say they think legislation will pass this year , up from 27 % in the week before the meeting . Currently , 54 % say they think a bill will not pass , while 62 % held that view before the summit .
Public interest in the 2008 presidential campaign reached a new high last week , despite the decline in press coverage . Fully 36 % of the public followed news about the campaign very closely , and the same percentage say it is the single story they followed most closely this past week . As recently as Nov 23 - 26 , 2007 , roughly half as many Americans ( 20 % ) reported this close attention to the campaign . This is the highest level of interest recorded during this campaign cycle , and it is comparable to the percent of Americans who were closely following campaign news in March 2004 ( 35 % ) — after that year 's `` Super Tuesday '' Democratic primaries . In other news last week , 22 % of Americans followed news about the search for the killer of a pregnant Marine , while 16 % listed this as the story they were following more closely than any other . Roughly three-in-ten followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely , but only 7 % listed this as their top story of the week . The national news media devoted a mere 1 % of its overall coverage to the Iraq war last week . Bush 's trip to the Middle East drew modest public interest : 17 % followed this story very closely and 3 % listed it as their most closely followed story of the week .
Although most people have not changed their views on a political or social issue in the past year because of social media , those who have also tend to place a high level of personal importance on social media as a tool for personal political engagement and activism . Among all social media users , people who changed their views on an issue are much more likely than those who did n't to say such sites are important when it comes to getting involved with political or social issues important to them ( 63 % vs. 35 % ) or finding others who share their views about important issues ( 67 % vs. 38 % ) . Just over half whose views changed ( 56 % ) say social media is personally important in providing a venue to express their political opinions , compared with a third of social media users who have not changed a view in the past year ( 33 % ) .
Before the coronavirus outbreak sent the U.S. economy into a recession , the share of American children living in poverty was on a downward trajectory , reaching record lows across racial and ethnic groups , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . In 2019 , the year with the most recently available data , 14 % of children under age 18 , or 10.5 million children , were living in poverty , down from 22 % , or 16.3 million , in 2010 . All major racial and ethnic groups saw declines since 2010 , but the greatest decreases were in the shares of Black and Hispanic children living in poverty . About two-in-ten Hispanic children ( 21 % ) were living in poverty in 2019 , down from 35 % in 2010 . In 2019 , 26 % of Black children were impoverished , dropping from 39 % in 2010 . Even so , Black and Hispanic children were still about three times as likely as Asian ( 7 % ) and White ( 8 % ) children to be living in poverty .
The candidate who finished second to Morsi in last June 's presidential runoff election , Ahmed Shafik , is generally viewed negatively . About half ( 52 % ) have an unfavorable opinion of Shafik , a former air force commander who served as Mubarak 's final prime minister ; 45 % rate him positively . Meanwhile , the Salafist al-Nour Party , which came in second in Egypt 's first parliamentary elections after the revolution , is viewed favorably by just four-in-ten Egyptians . These are among the key findings from a nationwide survey of Egypt by the Pew Research Center . Face-to-face interviews were conducted with 1,000 adults in Egypt from March 3 to March 23 . As the poll reveals , in many ways , ideological and partisan divides are growing sharper in Egypt . In particular , supporters of the opposition NSF see the state of the country quite differently from supporters of the FJP and the al-Nour Party . Those with a favorable view of the NSF are more likely to express dissatisfaction with the country 's direction , oppose the constitution , and believe the next national elections will be unfair ; they are also especially likely to value democracy over stability .
Today , Republicans ( 21 % ) and Democrats ( 24 % ) are about equally likely to express anger about the federal government . This reflects substantial shifts within both parties over the last year : Levels of anger toward the federal government have fallen sharply among Republicans , while levels among Democrats are up significantly . Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents the share feeling angry toward the federal government is down 12 percentage points from March 2016 ( from 33 % to 21 % ) . The last time anger toward government was about this low among Republicans was in March 2011 ( 18 % ) , shortly after Republicans regained control of Congress following victories in the 2010 midterm elections . Still , Republicans are more likely to express anger at government today than they were during the Bush administration . By contrast , Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are about twice as likely to express anger toward the federal government than they were a year ago ( 11 % then , 24 % today ) . The only time during the Obama administration that levels of Democratic anger were about as high as they are now was in October 2013 , during the federal government shutdown , when 25 % said they were angry . Democratic anger at government was at similar levels during Bush 's second term .
In contrast to views about gene editing and animal cloning research , majorities in all places surveyed say that research into new technologies to help women get pregnant is appropriate ( median of 73 % ) . A median of just 21 % say such research is a misuse of technology .
Certainly , Amato is not alone in taking pride in his country , especially its culture . Italians are much more likely than their fellow Westerners to believe in their country 's cultural pre-eminence . About two-in-three Italians ( 68 % ) agree with the statement `` Our people are not perfect , but our culture is superior to others . '' By contrast , in neighboring France — a country well known for having pride in its language and culture — only 32 % say their culture is better than others . Italians are even more confident in their cultural superiority than Americans ( 55 % ) , who themselves are well known for their strong national pride .
Supporters of the two parties differ substantially in their views of immigrants and the benefits that they do – or do not – bring to Italian society . About three-quarters of Italians who identify with the League – which campaigned on a far-right platform focused on reducing immigration – say immigrants are a burden on the Italian economy because they take Italians ' jobs . About seven-in-ten League supporters also say immigrants increase the risk of terrorist attacks in Italy , including 59 % who say they strongly believe immigrants increase the risk of such attacks . Those who identify with Five Star – which focused less on the immigration issue during the campaign – are more divided and much more in line with the views of the rest of Italian society . Among Five Star supporters , 49 % say immigrants are an economic burden , compared with 40 % who say they make the economy stronger . And while a majority of Five Star backers ( 55 % ) say immigrants increase the risk of terrorism in their country , a sizable percentage ( 42 % ) say immigrants do not increase terror risks .
Whites and blacks have distinctly different views . An overwhelming majority of blacks ( 92 % ) say whites benefit a great deal or a fair amount from advantages that blacks do not have , including 68 % who say they benefit a great deal . By comparison , 46 % of whites say whites benefit at least a fair amount from advantages in society that blacks do n't have , and just 16 % of whites say whites benefit a great deal . Attitudes among Hispanics fall between those of whites and blacks , with about two-thirds of Hispanics ( 65 % ) saying white people benefit a great deal or a fair amount from societal privileges that black people do not have . The gap between Republicans and Democrats also is stark . Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 78 % ) say white people benefit a great deal or a fair amount from advantages unavailable to black people ; just 21 % say they do not benefit at all or do not benefit too much . The views of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are nearly the opposite : 27 % say whites benefit a great deal or a fair amount from societal advantages , compared with 72 % who say they do not benefit at all or do not benefit too much .
Also worth noting is how South Koreans evaluate the U.S. and its leader . Of all the countries surveyed in 2018 , South Koreans have one of the most positive evaluations of the U.S. , second only to Filipinos and Israelis . Ratings of Trump , however , remain lukewarm , with less than half saying that they have confidence in Trump to do the right thing regarding world affairs . However , this represents a substantial increase from before the first summit , when only 17 % of South Koreans had confidence in Trump . Still , the 44 % confidence in Trump remains half the level of support Barack Obama had in 2015 .
Large shares of Spaniards are also skeptical about the future of the labor market and political system . Only about a quarter ( 24 % ) of Spaniards say they are hopeful that well-paying jobs will be available in the future , while 76 % are doubtful . Similarly , a small share is confident in the future of the Spanish political system .
The partisan differences on these questions are wide . Three-quarters of Democrats ( 76 % ) say they plan to tune in to Obama 's address , compared with 49 % of Republicans and 52 % of independents . On the other hand , 63 % of Republicans say they plan to watch the debate , compared with 30 % of Democrats and 39 % of independents .
Some language and tactics are viewed as clearly over the line : A sizable majority ( 81 % ) says it is never acceptable for a politician to deliberately mislead people about their opponent 's record . There is much less agreement about the acceptability of elected officials using insults like `` evil '' or `` anti-American . ''
While Valentine 's Day is widely celebrated as a time for peak romance – and even marriage proposals – marriage is n't the only way to achieve happiness and contentment for many Americans . Fewer than one-in-five U.S. adults say being married is essential for a man or a woman to live a fulfilling life , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in summer 2019 . Similar shares of adults say that marriage is essential for women ( 17 % ) and men ( 16 % ) to live fulfilling lives . A much larger share of Americans ( 54 % ) say being married is important but not essential for men and women to live fulfilling lives . And about three-in-ten say marriage is not important in this respect .
As has been the case throughout the 2008 presidential campaign , Democrats Clinton and Obama remain by far the most visible presidential candidates . Currently , 38 % of Americans say that Obama is the candidate they have been hearing the most about in the news lately , while 31 % name Clinton . By comparison , just 13 % say that they have been hearing the most about Republican John McCain ( up from 5 % , Jan 18 - 21 ) . Far fewer people named Republican presidential hopefuls Mike Huckabee ( 2 % ) and Ron Paul ( 1 % ) or Mitt Romney ( 2 % ) who suspended his campaign last week .
Earlier this year , a Pew Research Center analysis of State Department data found a sharp decline in the number of refugees who have entered the U.S. so far in fiscal year 2018 compared with prior years .
Just 3 % say they followed news about the start of peace talks between Israeli and Palestinian leaders most closely ; 14 % say they followed this news very closely . News about the talks in Washington made up 5 % of coverage .
A record seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) Hispanic high school graduates in the class of 2012 enrolled in college that fall , two percentage points higher than the rate ( 67 % ) among their white counterparts .
Attitudes toward Trump have consistently been much more negative than those toward his predecessor , Barack Obama , especially in Western Europe . In the UK , Spain , France and Germany , ratings for Trump are similar to those received by George W. Bush near the end of his presidency .
Strong majorities of independent voters express positive views of John McCain ( 64 % ) and Barack Obama ( 62 % ) . No other candidate is viewed favorably by a majority of independent voters .
The types of summer jobs that teenagers are holding has changed over time , too . More than 2.1 million of the estimated 6.2 million teens who were employed last July ( 34.2 % ) worked in the `` accommodation and food services '' industry – restaurants , hotels and the like – compared with 1.9 million ( 22.6 % ) in July 2000 , according to BLS data . In fact , this industry was the only major employer of teens that had more teen workers last July than in July 2000 – a span in which the number of all employed 16- to 19-year-olds fell by more than 2.2 million , or 26.5 % . ( That partly reflects overall employment in the accommodation and food services industry , which rose 38 % between July 2000 and July 2018 . ) But retail , once the leading summer employer of teens , has seen a steep falloff . Last July , 1.2 million teens worked in the retail sector , compared with more than 2 million in July 2000 – a 41 % drop . ( Among all workers , by comparison , non-seasonally adjusted retail employment was about 4 % higher last July than it was in July 2000 . ) Retail accounted for 19.3 % of teen summer jobs in July 2018 , down from 24 % in July 2000 .
The public 's sympathies in the Middle East dispute have changed little in recent years . These opinions continue to be divided along partisan lines : Far more Republicans sympathize with Israel ( 62 % ) than with the Palestinians ( 4 % ) or sympathize with neither side ( 14 % ) and 18 % have no opinion . By contrast , 27 % of Democrats say they sympathize with Israel while nearly as many ( 24 % ) volunteer that they sympathize with neither side ; 15 % of Democrats sympathize with the Palestinians . Nearly three-in-ten Democrats ( 29 % ) offer no opinion . Among independents , 41 % sympathize with Israel , 22 % with neither Israel nor the Palestinians , and 10 % the Palestinians ; 24 % express no opinion .
Although the growth of the unauthorized population has slackened , its size has increased by more than 40 % since 2000 , when it was 8.4 million . In 2005 , the Pew Hispanic Center estimated there were 11.1 million undocumented immigrants in the United States . The most recent estimate , 11.9 million , indicates that unauthorized immigrants make up 4 % of the U.S. population . These estimates are based mainly on data from the 2000 Census and the March Current Population Surveys for the years since then . Because the Census Bureau does not ask people their immigration status , these estimates are derived using a widely accepted methodology that essentially subtracts the estimated legal-immigrant population from the total foreign-born population . The residual is treated as a source of data on the unauthorized immigrant population . [ For more details , see Methodology appendix ]
Moaddel : Findings from the survey in Saudi Arabia were particularly interesting . While over 70 % of the Saudi respondents mentioned the most conservative type of dress as the appropriate style ( pictures No . 1 and No . 2 ) , at the same time a much higher percentage of Saudis ( 47 % ) than Egyptians ( 14 % ) , Iraqis ( 27 % ) or Pakistanis ( 22 % ) support freedom of choice for women to dress as they wish .
Saudi Arabia has a young and rapidly growing Muslim population . The kingdom has more than 30 million inhabitants , and roughly 93 % of them are Muslim , according to Pew Research Center data . The country is officially a Muslim nation and most Saudi Muslims are Sunni . However , a Shia minority accounts for an estimated 10 % to 15 % of the population . Additionally , Saudi Arabia is a young country : In 2015 , about 56 % of the kingdom 's Muslims were under the age of 30 . The number of Muslims in Saudi Arabia is projected to increase 51 % between 2015 and 2050 , though their share of the global Muslim population is expected to remain small at about 2 % .
About six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , not much different from the 65 % that said the same in early January . However , 35 % say they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy , up from 29 % the week of Jan. 8 - 11 . Just 4 % say they are hearing mostly good news about the economy , about the same as the 5 % that said this last month .
Once Indians are on a social network , they tend to use them for staying in touch with family and friends ( 90 % of social networking users ) and sharing views about music and movies ( 87 % ) . They do not use these sites as often for sharing views about politics ( 35 % ) . However , we 've found similar patterns among other emerging and developing nations .
Overall views of the parties have also been relatively level across party lines . A good part of the Democratic Party 's overall favorability edge over the GOP is because it consistently receives more positive ratings from its own political base . Currently 86 % of Democrats offer a favorable assessment of the Democratic Party , compared with 77 % of Republicans – a gap that has been relatively consistent over the past year . But Democrats have also re-opened a favorability advantage among independents , 41 % of whom now offer a favorable assessment of the Democratic Party , compared with 33 % who view the GOP favorably . Polling over the summer found independents offering equally low favorability ratings to both political parties .
In foreign affairs , Australia has long held strong relationships with the nations of both Asia and the West . When asked whether , taking into account political and economic ties , China or the U.S. is more important to Australia , 45 % answer China , while nearly an identical percentage say the U.S. ( 42 % ) . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) volunteer that they are equally important .
As might be expected , they do better than their foreign-born counterparts on many key economic , social and acculturation indicators analyzed in this report . They are much more proficient in English and are less likely to drop out of high school , live in poverty or become a teen parent . But on a number of other measures , U.S.-born Latino youths do no better than the foreign born . And on some fronts , they do worse .
Our March survey found that most Americans ranked the stock market last among six factors affecting their finances . Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) said gas prices had the greatest impact on their wallets , followed by prices for food and consumer goods ( 58 % ) , the federal deficit ( 39 % ) , the jobs situation ( 39 % ) and real estate values ( 32 % ) . Only 23 % cited the stock market as an important factor .
The shootings at Virginia Tech University overshadowed all other news stories last week – both in terms of coverage and public interest . Fully 45 % of Americans paid very close attention to the tragedy and 56 % said it was the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . However , interest in the Virginia Tech shootings was considerably lower than interest in the Columbine High School shootings which occurred almost exactly eight years earlier . More than two-thirds of Americans ( 68 % ) paid very close attention to the Columbine incident . Interest in the Virginia Tech shootings was on a par with school shootings that took place in the fall of 2006 ( including the shooting at an Amish school house in Pennsylvania ) , as well as the 1998 shootings at a middle school in Jonesboro , Arkansas and a high school in Springfield Oregon . In a busy news week , the public 's focus was primarily on the events in Blacksburg , Virginia . While interest in the situation in Iraq was substantial , the war did not dominate the public 's attention this past week as it has throughout most of the year . Only 13 % said they followed the events in Iraq more closely than any other news story . Neither Attorney General Alberto Gonzales 's testimony before Congress concerning the firing of eight U.S. attorneys nor the Supreme Court 's abortion ruling put a dent in the Virginia Tech audience . Only 4 % of the public named either of these stories as the one they followed most closely last week . The Virginia Tech shootings attracted more public interest and received more news coverage than any other story this year . Fully 51 % of all news coverage for the week was devoted to the Virginia Tech shootings and its aftermath . Cable news led the way devoting 76 % of its coverage to the story . More than 60 % of network television news focused on this story , as did half of all radio news . The public relied mainly on television for news about the shootings : 36 % say their main source of information about the story was cable news and another 32 % say they relied primarily on network TV news . The Internet was the main source of news on the shootings for 11 % of the public , while 9 % relied mainly on newspapers and another 9 % relied on radio .
Americans ' views of the UN have generally remained steady , but partisan divides have widened since 2013 . The share of Democrats who have a positive view of the UN is generally higher than the share of Republicans who say the same , but the partisan gap has been especially large since 2013 . That year , 72 % of Democrats and 41 % of Republicans expressed a favorable view – a difference of 31 percentage points . This year , Democrats are 41 points more likely than Republicans to see the UN positively ( 77 % vs. 36 % ) . The share of Republicans who currently have a favorable view of the UN is at its lowest point in almost 30 years of Pew Research Center surveys .
Interestingly , the tools people use to keep up with community issues are related to whether or not they are on a first-name basis with their neighbors . As people know fewer of their neighbors by name , they become much less likely to discuss community issues face-to-face . Among those who know all of their neighbors by name , 70 % have discussed community issues with neighbors in person , compared with just 12 % of those who do not know any of their neighbors . When it comes to using the phone 33 % of those who know all of their neighbors by name called someone in the past year to discuss local events , vs. 6 % of those who do n't know the names any of their neighbors . The numbers for email are 23 % vs. 7 % .
Both Muslims and the general public also were asked if there are circumstances under which targeting and killing civilians can be justified in order to further a political , social or religious cause . Roughly eight-in-ten U.S. Muslims ( 84 % ) say such tactics can rarely ( 8 % ) or never ( 76 % ) be justified . The share of Muslims who say such tactics can often or sometimes be justified ( 12 % ) is similar to the share saying this among the general public ( 14 % ) . And Muslims are more likely than the public as a whole to say that targeting civilians for political , social or religious causes can never be justified .
There were also partisan disagreements over what kind of impact would come from granting legal status to millions of unauthorized immigrants who entered the country illegally . About three-in-four Republicans thought that doing so would encourage more people to come to the U.S. illegally and that it would be a drain on government services ; about half of Democrats agreed . A greater share of Republicans also believed that legal status for those who live here illegally would reward such behavior and take jobs from U.S. citizens . But a substantial majority of both parties said that deporting all unauthorized immigrants would be unrealistic and that it would be better for the economy if they became legal workers .
The gap between the voter turnout reported by the Census Bureau and the actual national vote tallied by election officials widened in 2012 . According to the Census Bureau 's 2012 Current Population Survey November Supplement on Voting and Registration , an estimated 133 million U.S. citizens voted in 2012 . That estimate is higher—by 4 million votes—than the national tally of 129 million votes cast for president . The gap in reported votes and the actual vote tally is the widest since 2000 ( when the gap was 5.4 million votes ) and marks the first widening of the gap since 1984 . The Census Bureau 's November supplement to the CPS is the most comprehensive data source available for examining the demographic composition of the electorate in federal elections , but it relies on a post-election self-reporting by survey respondents . Because of what is sometimes described as `` social desirability bias '' some survey respondents may say they voted when in fact they did not .
In the four predominantly Muslim countries surveyed , opposition to the war remains nearly universal . Moreover , while large majorities in Western European countries opposed to the war say Saddam Hussein 's ouster will improve the lot of the Iraqi people , those in Muslim countries are less confident . In Jordan , no less than 70 % of survey respondents think the Iraqis will be worse off with Hussein gone .
In a Pew Research Center survey from April , only 6 % of Americans said the economy was recovering strongly . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) said the economy was recovering , but not very strongly ; about a quarter ( 26 % ) said it was n't recovering at all . The same survey found that Americans ' financial self-assessment had barely budged since June 2009 , when the recession officially ended : 37 % rated their financial situation `` excellent '' or `` good , '' 39 % `` only fair , '' and 23 % `` poor . ''
The day will be an intensely personal experience for many veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts — about half ( 47 % ) said that they served with a comrade that had been killed , according to a Pew Research Center survey of veterans conducted in 2011 . That number rises to 62 % among soldiers who were in combat .
Despite relatively few Americans expecting an expansion of U.S. influence after the pandemic , this year has seen a marked increase in the shares that see the U.S. as a top power , both economically and militarily . About six-in-ten Americans think their country has the world 's strongest economy , increasing from only half in 2019 . Similarly , about eight-in-ten think the U.S. is the world 's leading military power , an increase from 72 % in 2016 . In addition , an overwhelming majority of Americans agree that the world would be better off with the U.S. as the leading power , rather than China .
In addition , about one-in-seven adults ( 15 % ) say they have taken steps to reduce their risk of getting the virus .
Nor was the public was ready to give organized labor a wholehearted embrace . Only 10 % said they belonged to a union , and , during the 1936 - 1937 General Motors strike , only a third said their sympathy lay with the strikers , while 41 % sided with the employers . What 's more , fully 60 % supported the passage of state laws making sit-down strikes illegal , and about the same proportion favored forceful intervention by state and local authorities ; half would call out the militia if strike trouble threatened .
As the June 30 deadline for negotiations over its nuclear program approaches , a new Pew Research Center poll finds that attitudes toward Iran are mostly negative worldwide . Majorities or pluralities in 31 of 40 countries surveyed hold an unfavorable opinion of the Islamic Republic . And in several Muslim-majority countries in the Middle East and Asia , ratings have declined considerably in recent years .
A Pew Research Center poll in March showed that seven-in-ten U.S. Catholics think addressing the abuse scandal should be `` a top priority '' for the new pope .
Fully 71 % say a failure of Republicans and Democrats to work together over the next two years would hurt the nation `` a lot '' and 16 % say it will hurt `` some . '' While the negative impact of political gridlock is seen as being most acute for the country as a whole , 45 % say they would be hurt a lot personally by an absence of partisan cooperation , and 28 % would be hurt some . Notably , there are only minimal partisan differences in these opinions .
A majority of Americans ( 52 % ) now favor legalizing the use of marijuana .
In this analysis , a multigenerational caregiver is any parent who is age 18 or older , lives with their own child younger than 18 and provided unpaid adult care on the prior day , according to the BLS American Time Use Survey data . Caregiving can include an array of activities : Adult care may include tasks such as providing hands-on assistance with dressing , eating or medical care ; providing transportation to appointments ; or helping to maintain the homes or finances of those who receive care . Child care may also include hands-on assistance , as well as reading or playing , attending children 's events or helping with homework . A multigenerational caregiver may be providing care to anyone who needs it , be it a relative , friend or neighbor . ( See additional tables for a detailed list of caregiving activities included in this analysis . ) Multigenerational caregivers spend 21 fewer minutes per day sleeping than parents who are not also caring for an adult . But they spend 16 minutes more a day engaged in leisure and personal activities and 14 minutes more a day doing housework and errands .
Despite the size and influence of the Millennial generation , however , most of those in this age cohort do not identify with the term `` Millennial . '' Just 40 % of adults ages 18 to 34 consider themselves part of the `` Millennial generation , '' while another 33 % – mostly older Millennials – consider themselves part of the next older cohort , Generation X. Generational identity is strongest among the Boomers : 79 % of those 51 to 69 consider themselves part of the `` Baby-Boom generation . '' Among those 35 to 50 ( the age range for Gen X ) , 58 % consider themselves part of `` Generation X . '' The oldest cohort of Americans is by far the least likely to embrace a generational label . Just 18 % of those ages 70 to 87 ( the age range of the Silent Generation ) actually see themselves as part of the `` Silent Generation . '' Far more Silents consider themselves part of adjoining generations , either Boomers ( 34 % ) or the Greatest Generation ( also 34 % ) .
The Global Attitudes study correlated views on religion with annual per capita income and found that wealthier nations tend to place less importance on religion — with the exception of the United States . This is seen most clearly in Asia , where publics in the two wealthiest nations surveyed — Japan and South Korea — are far less likely to cite religion as personally important than those in poorer nations of the region . The lone exception is Vietnam , however , where just 24 % of the public view religion as very important . ( Questions on the personal importance of religion were not permitted in China , and were deemed too sensitive to ask in Egypt , Jordan and Lebanon . )
Rising pollution in the developing world – Once again , Asian respondents to the Global Agenda survey are more concerned about air pollution than other regions . But across 34 emerging and developing nations that we surveyed , including nine in Asia , a median of 54 % see air pollution as a problem in their countries . Growing importance of health in the economy – As developing nations grow , health care spending in those countries is also expected to increase . In fact , the most important problem facing the emerging and developing economies in our survey , after economic issues , corruption and crime , is health care . A median of 59 % across 34 nations say it is a very big problem in their country .
The public followed the debate more closely than any other story last week by a wide margin amid continuing news of major job losses and stern warnings from Obama about the severity of the crisis . Some 47 % say the stimulus debate was the story they followed most closely , while 16 % say they followed reports about rising unemployment most closely . One-in-ten say they followed stories about a California mother giving birth to octuplets most closely .
Contrary to their attitudes about what their own country should do , widespread majorities of most NATO publics believe the U.S. would use military force to defend a fellow NATO country . Poles stand out as less certain that the U.S. would come to an ally 's aid ( 49 % would , 31 % would not ) .
Favorable opinion of Russia trails that of the U.S. by a significant margin in most regions of the world . The image gap is 43 points in Europe ( U.S. 69 % , Russia 26 % ) ; it is 42 points in Africa ( U.S. 79 % , Russia 37 % ) . Only in the Middle East are opinions of Russia and the U.S. comparable , both notably poor : just 29 % favorable for the U.S. and 25 % favorable for Russia .
After rising steadily and substantially for several years , the growth in remittances sent to Mexico began slackening notably in mid-2006 and the rate of growth slowed through the first quarter of 2007 . From the beginning of 2003 through the middle of 2006 , remittance receipts showed annual increases averaging 26.5 % , measured on a quarterly basis . Since mid-2006 , the rate of annual growth has averaged 6.5 % ; in the first quarter of 2007 it was 3.4 % . Remittance receipts have increased from a total of $ 13.4 billion in 2003 to $ 26 billion in 2006 . Amid this overall growth , however , there have been seasonal fluctuations in remittance receipts , and as such the pace of increase is best measured by comparing the amount received in a given quarter to the receipts in the same quarter of the previous year ( Figure 9 ) . Remittance receipts posted annual increases of at least 19 % in 13 of the 14 quarters from the beginning of 2003 through the middle of 2006 . That trend ended in the third quarter of 2006 with an increase of 10.5 % followed by 5.5 % in the last quarter of 2006 and 3.4 % in the first quarter of 2007 ( Figure 10 ) .
U.S. employers planned to pay high-skilled foreign workers with H-1B visas a median salary of $ 80,000 a year in fiscal year 2016 , up from about $ 69,000 a decade earlier , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of new U.S . Citizenship and Immigration Services data . The 2016 median salary reported for H-1B visa applicants was higher than the median salary paid to some U.S. workers in similar high-skill occupations . For example , U.S. workers in computer and mathematical occupations had a median salary of $ 75,036 in fiscal 2016 , a slight increase from 2007 , when the median salary was $ 73,979 ( adjusted to 2016 dollars ) , according to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data on all U.S. workers . The majority ( 60 % ) of all H-1B applicants from fiscal 2007 to 2016 were seeking employment in computer and mathematical occupations .
Putin , Xi and especially Trump are unpopular globally . More than 30 world leaders are expected to attend the summit . Of the five leaders evaluated in the spring survey – all of whom are scheduled to appear – President Donald Trump receives the lowest ratings . A median of 70 % across 25 countries say they do not have confidence in the U.S. leader to do the right thing regarding world affairs . Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping also receive negative reviews – a median of 62 % lack confidence in Putin while 56 % say this about Xi . German Chancellor Angela Merkel receives the highest rating : A median of 52 % are confident in her ability to handle world affairs , while 46 % are confident in French President Emmanuel Macron .
While most Americans disapprove of Donald Trump 's recent executive order that would prohibit refugees and travel from some Muslim-majority countries , a recent Pew Research Center survey finds a sizable divide on the issue among the country 's major religious groups . Most Republicans support and most Democrats oppose the order , which would temporarily prohibit accepting new refugees from Syria into the U.S. and also prevent people ( refugee or otherwise ) from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S . The partisan gap is mirrored by a religious one . About three-quarters of white evangelical Protestants ( 76 % ) , most of whom identify with or lean toward the GOP , say they approve of the travel ban . In stark contrast , big majorities of black Protestants ( 84 % ) and religious `` nones '' ( 74 % ) – two strongly Democratic constituencies – disapprove of the executive order .
Looking at other top stories , 7 % say they followed news about Facebook 's public stock offering most closely , while 12 % say they very closely followed news about the social network 's newly issued stock . That 's about the same as the 14 % that said this one week earlier when the stock first started trading . News about Facebook accounted for 6 % of coverage . Just 5 % say their top story the sentencing of a Rutgers University student who had used a webcam to spy on his gay roommate ; 11 % say they very closely followed news about the sentencing of Dharun Ravi . This story made up 2 % of coverage . The presidential election in Egypt drew little interest , with 4 % saying they followed this news very closely and 1 % saying this was their top story . News about the election made up 4 % of coverage . In early 2011 , the public followed the initial protests against the Egyptian government and the resignation of Hosni Mubarak much more closely . In mid-February of last year , 39 % said they were following this news very closely .
Ugandans ( 79 % ) , Bangladeshis ( 78 % ) , Lebanese ( 77 % ) , Tunisians ( 73 % ) and Vietnamese ( 72 % ) are the most likely to associate trade with rising wages . Those who are most likely to hold the view that trade hurts wages are Italians ( 52 % ) , Greeks ( 49 % ) , French ( 47 % ) , Americans ( 45 % ) and Colombians ( 43 % ) .
The vast majority of Americans ( 85 % ) say they would support restricting workforce automation to jobs that are dangerous or unhealthy for humans to do , including 47 % who support the idea strongly , according to the survey , conducted May 1 - 15 among 4,135 U.S. adults . A smaller majority ( 62 % ) would favor giving consumers the option to pay extra to interact with a human , rather than a robot or computer , when purchasing products or services . Most Americans also see a policy role for the federal government , specifically . Six-in-ten say they would favor a federal policy that would provide a guaranteed income for all citizens to meet basic needs if robots and computers become capable of doing many jobs now done by humans . And 58 % say they would support a federal service program that would pay people to do tasks even if machines are able do the work faster and more cheaply .
For those who own a smartphone , these devices now outpace more traditional means of accessing the web . Some 46 % of smartphone owners say when using the internet , they mostly do so on their phone . This represents a double-digit increase from 2013 , when 34 % of these users said this . At the same time , the share of smartphone users who say a desktop , laptop or tablet computer is their primary device for going online has fallen from 53 % in 2013 to 30 % today . Roughly one-quarter of smartphone users say they equally use a cellphone or a desktop , laptop or tablet computer when going online , up from 12 % six years prior . Smartphone users ' preferred method of going online varies significantly by age . While 60 % of smartphone owners ages 18 to 29 and roughly half of those ages 30 to 49 say they mostly use their cellphone to use the internet , those shares fall to about one-third or less among those ages 50 and older . On the other hand , smartphone users ages 50 and over are about twice as likely as those under the age of 50 to say they mostly access the internet through a computer of some kind ( 43 % vs. 21 % ) .
Ratings for Obama 's performance on this issue are decidedly poor in the six predominantly Muslim nations included in the survey , and they are particularly negative in the three Arab nations polled that border Israel — more than eight-in-ten Lebanese ( 90 % ) , Egyptians ( 88 % ) and Jordanians ( 84 % ) say they disapprove . On many questions , including questions about America 's image , there are sharp divisions among Lebanon 's major religious groups , but on this issue there is little disagreement — 84 % of Lebanese Sunnis , 87 % of the country 's Christians and a remarkable 100 % of Shia respondents disapprove of the way Obama has handled the Middle East conflict . About two-thirds in Turkey ( 66 % ) and half ( 51 % ) in Pakistan also hold this view . In both of these countries , only 5 % approve of Obama 's performance , while large numbers offer no opinion . Even in Indonesia , where Obama 's connection to the country — he lived there for several years as a child — typically boosts his ratings as well as America 's overall image , 56 % disapprove of how he has handled the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians .
Earth Day takes place on April 22 each year . One issue at the center of public discussions about the environment is global warming : whether it is occurring and what its causes might be . An analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Forum on Religion & Public Life of a 2008 survey conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press examines views on global warming among major religious traditions in the U.S . The unaffiliated ( 58 % ) are the most likely among the religious groups studied to say there is solid evidence the earth is warming because of human activity . White evangelical Protestants are the most likely to say there is no solid evidence the earth is warming ( 31 % ) , and the least likely to believe that humans have contributed to heating up the planet ( 34 % ) . While only 39 % of black Protestants say global warming is a result of human activity , they are , however , the least likely of the religions studied to deny global warming is occurring ( 15 % ) .
Twitter can be a valuable tool in helping to deal with emergencies . A 2012 Pew Research Center study found that Twitter was a critical lifeline when Hurricane Sandy devastated wide swaths of the East Coast in October of that year . Twitter traffic during Sandy and its aftermath was more than double what it was just before the storm hit ; people mainly used Twitter to share news and information as well as photos and videos .
Among the activities tested among online users , socializing , either with friends or family or by utilizing social networks , is the most popular choice . Meanwhile , getting information , such as political news , health advice or government services , is in the second tier of internet use , but still widespread . Commerce and career activities such as looking for a job , making or receiving payments , buying products and taking an online class are less common .
While many Americans may be resigned to seeing automatic spending cuts in the budget sequester go into effect , the public is concerned about the potential impact of the reductions . A new national survey by the Pew Research Center and The Washington Post , conducted Feb. 21 - 24 among 1,000 adults , finds that most say the budget sequester would have a major effect on the economy as well as on the U.S. military . And by more than three-to-one ( 62 % -18 % ) , the public sees the impact on the economy as mostly negative rather than mostly positive . Yet the new survey finds six-in-ten-ten ( 60 % ) saying automatic federal spending cuts would have a major effect on the U.S. economy and nearly as many ( 55 % ) say the same for the U.S. military . Fewer ( 45 % ) say the cuts would have a major impact on the federal budget deficit , while just ( 30 % ) think their own personal finances would be affected in a major way .
Black , Asian and Hispanic mothers experienced a greater decrease in the shares who were at work in the COVID-19 downturn than White mothers . Among fathers , Black and Hispanic fathers saw a greater decrease in the share employed than White and Asian fathers .
The personal earnings of recently arrived U.S. immigrants have increased , but trail those of longer-term immigrants . Those who arrived in the past five years had median annual personal earnings of $ 24,000 in 2017 , compared with $ 32,000 among those who have lived in the country more than 10 years . For decades , more-recent arrivals have lagged longer-term residents in personal earnings despite having higher levels of education . For the U.S. population , by contrast , those with a college education have higher earnings . Since the Great Recession , the personal earnings of newer arrivals have increased while those of longer-tenured residents have remained flat .
Americans continued to express strong interest in news about the death of Osama bin Laden and its ramifications last week , even as news coverage of the story continued to decline . About a quarter of the public ( 27 % ) says they followed reports about the killing of bin Laden and its impact on U.S. relations with Pakistan more closely than any other story , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted May 19 - 22 among 1,004 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . No one story dominated coverage , but the media devoted 15 % of the newshole last week — more than for any other story — to the attempted rape charges brought in New York against Dominique Strauss-Kahn , then the top official at the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) . Just 2 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The public showed more interest in news about flooding along the Mississippi River and the continuing struggles of the U.S. economy than in news about the former IMF leader , Strauss-Kahn . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the flooding most closely , while 15 % say the economy was their top story .
Among the largest digital-native news outlets – those with a monthly average of at least 10 million unique visitors – 14 % went through layoffs in 2018 , down from 20 % in 2017 .
With the media and the public so highly focused on the economy and the presidential campaign last week , other news stories attracted relatively little attention . While 29 % of the public say they followed news about the current situation in Iraq very closely , only 2 % listed this as the single news story they were following more closely than any other . The media devoted 1 % of its overall coverage to events in Iraq .
Pairing a survey with an examination of the Twitter behaviors of U.S. adults also allows for a comparison of the attitudes and characteristics of political tweeters with those of other Twitter users . Political tweeters – defined as those who tweeted at least five times in total , and at least twice about national politics , over the year of the study period – are almost twice as likely as other Twitter users to say the people they follow on Twitter have political beliefs similar to their own ( 38 % of political tweeters say this , compared with around one-in-five among nonpolitical tweeters ) . By contrast , nonpolitical tweeters are more likely to say they are n't sure about the political beliefs of the people they follow or that they follow people with a mix of political views .
A new nationwide survey by the Pew Research Center 's Social & Demographic Trends project finds that a majority ( 54 % ) of workers ages 65 and older say the main reason they work is that they want to . Just 17 % say the main reason is that they need the paycheck . An additional 27 % say they 're motivated by a mix of desire and need .
Most Germans want to be more independent from the U.S. on foreign policy , but most Americans want to remain close with Europe . A wide majority of Germans ( 72 % ) say they want their country to be more independent from the U.S. on foreign policy , while about a quarter ( 24 % ) want it to remain as close to the U.S. as it has been . In the U.S. , roughly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) want to remain close with Europe , rather than be more independent on foreign policy ( 30 % ) .
In addition , 42.5 % said they felt that they had n't acquired certain key skills necessary for real-world success — mainly in new digital technologies and job seeking strategies .
As ownership of mobile phones , especially smartphones , spreads rapidly across the globe , there are still notable numbers of people in emerging economies who do not own a mobile phone , or who share one with others . A Pew Research Center survey in 11 emerging economies finds that a median of 6 % of adults do not use phones at all , and a median of 7 % do not own phones but instead borrow them from others . The mobile divides are most pronounced in Venezuela ( 32 % ) , India ( 30 % ) and the Philippines ( 27 % ) , countries where about three-in-ten adults do not own a mobile phone .
About six-in-ten Republicans ( 59 % ) say they are very ( 12 % ) or somewhat ( 47 % ) optimistic about the future of the Republican Party . In December 2016 , nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) said they were very ( 28 % ) or somewhat ( 51 % ) optimistic . Republican views are now comparable to what they were on the eve of the 2016 election : Last November , 61 % expressed optimism about their party 's future .
In other news this week , aside from the Vick story , the situation in Iraq and the devastating floods in the Midwest were the public 's most closely followed news stories . A third of Americans ( 34 % ) paid very close attention to the situation in Iraq and 17 % listed this as their most closely followed news story . Roughly a quarter ( 27 % ) followed the floods very closely and 17 % listed this as their most closely followed story . Interest in the floods was particularly high in those states that were directly affected — 41 % of Midwesterners followed the story very closely . Though Hurricane Dean received slightly more press coverage than the Midwest floods , the public paid closer attention to the floods . Fewer than one-in-five ( 18 % ) followed news about the hurricane very closely , 11 % listed this as their top news story of the week . Hurricanes that impact the U.S. directly invariably draw a larger audience than do storms , such as Dean , that hit the Caribbean or Mexico . The Iraq policy debate , the most heavily-covered news story of the week , drew the very close attention of 25 % of the public . While 12 % of the national newshole was devoted to this story , only 8 % of the public said this was the story they followed most closely .
By nearly two-to-one ( 65 % to 33 % ) , Republicans with at least a four-year college degree hold unfavorable opinions of labor unions . By contrast , opinion is divided among Republicans who do not have a college degree ( 45 % unfavorable , 42 % favorable ) .
Survey questions also probed for the use of non-voice applications on cell phones . Respondents were asked specifically about whether they access the internet and whether they use email , texting or instant messaging from a cell phone . The findings reveal a mixed pattern of non-voice cell phone application use across ethnic and racial groups . Hispanics are less likely than whites to use any non-voice applications on a cell phone ( 58 % vs. 64 % ) , and they are also less likely than whites to send or receive text messages ( 55 % vs. 61 % ) . However , Hispanics and whites are equally likely to access the internet and send or receive email from a cell phone . And Hispanics are more likely than whites to engage in instant messaging ( 34 % vs. 20 % ) . Compared with blacks , Hispanics are less likely to access the internet ( 31 % vs. 41 % ) or send or receive email ( 27 % vs. 33 % ) from a cell phone , but rates of texting and instant messaging are similar for the two groups .
The majority of Tunisians believe that Islam should play at least some role in their government . More than half ( 53 % ) say that laws should follow the values and principles of Islam , but not strictly follow the teachings of the Quran . Three-in-ten believe that laws should strictly follow the teachings of the Quran , while 15 % believe laws in Tunisia should not be influenced at all by the Quran , which is relatively unchanged over the last year .
Regarding refugees in particular , four-in-ten in the EU say their country 's policies should be more restrictive , but again this sentiment is particularly strong in Italy ( 57 % ) and Greece ( 56 % ) , according to the German Marshall Fund 's Transatlantic Trends survey in 2014 . Greeks and Italians are also the most likely to be concerned about immigration from outside the EU ( 84 % and 76 % , respectively , are concerned about this ) . European leaders are now trying to address the humanitarian crisis , but if sentiment captured in last year 's German Marshall survey still holds true , they face public opinion obstacles . Across 10 EU countries , six-in-ten Europeans ( 60 % ) disapprove of their government 's handling of immigration , including around three-quarters in Spain ( 77 % ) , Greece ( 75 % ) and the UK ( 73 % ) .
Opinions about the state of the nation 's economy are correlated with views of Trump 's job performance . People who have the most positive views of economic conditions – the 16 % of adults who say the economy is excellent – overwhelmingly approve of Trump . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 86 % ) approve of his performance , including 76 % who strongly approve .
About half of Americans ( 46 % ) say they plan to watch as Donald Trump takes the presidential oath of office on Friday , while 51 % say they do not intend to watch the inauguration . Interest in Trump 's inaugural is lower than for Barack Obama 's first inauguration in 2009 , when two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) said they were planning to watch . It is also lower than for Bill Clinton 's first inaugural in 1993 , when 57 % said they intended to watch . ( The question was not asked when George W. Bush took office in 2001 . ) There is a wide partisan gap over plans to watch the inauguration , according to a new Pew Research Center survey , conducted Jan. 4 - 9 among 1,502 adults . About seven-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 69 % ) say they will watch the event , compared with just 30 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . Despite their overall support for the president-elect and his plans , Republicans are less enthusiastic about watching Trump 's inauguration than Democrats were about watching Obama 's eight years ago ( 69 % of Republicans today , compared with 84 % of Democrats in 2009 ) .
These are the findings of the latest nationwide Pew Research Center survey of 1,201 Americans , conducted April 30-May 4 , which shows the percentage of Americans expecting the economy to be better off next year rising to 43 % from as low as 30 % in January and 33 % about a month ago .
While Pakistanis express serious concerns about the U.S. , they also have deep worries about their neighbor and longtime rival India . Indeed , they are more worried about the external threat from India than extremist groups within Pakistan . When asked which is the greatest threat to their country – India , the Taliban or al Qaeda – slightly more than half of Pakistanis ( 53 % ) choose India , compared with 23 % for the Taliban and just 3 % for al Qaeda .
A majority of the online quiz-takers fell into the category of `` Library Lovers , '' a group that only makes up 10 % of the general population . The next largest group among quiz-takers was Information Omnivores , at 26 % . ( Learn more about the different groups here . ) Library Lovers and Information Omnivores are both `` high-engagement '' groups , characterized by their frequent library use and the high personal value they place on libraries .
The U.S. receives overwhelmingly positive ratings in Israel , with even more Israelis now saying they have a favorable view of their country 's ally than did so two years ago , when Pew Research last conducted a survey in Israel ; today , 83 % express a positive opinion of the U.S. , compared with 72 % in 2011 . In contrast , about eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) Palestinians express unfavorable views of the U.S. , virtually unchanged from recent surveys . In Israel , Jews are far more likely than Arabs to express positive views of the U.S. ; nine-in-ten Israeli Jews have a favorable opinion , compared with 42 % of Israeli Arabs . Arabs and Jews in Israel agree , however , that their country 's relationship with the U.S. is good . Overall , 94 % of Israelis think Israel and the U.S. have a good relationship ; 93 % of Israeli Jews and 95 % of Israeli Arabs share this view .
Given that , as of 2010 , only about a quarter ( 24 % ) of the global Catholic population is from Europe , the continent remains heavily overrepresented among voting cardinals . By this measure , the most underrepresented continent within the church 's leadership – even with Francis ' new picks – is Latin America and the Caribbean , which is home to 39 % of the worldwide Catholic population ( again , as of 2010 ) and has 19 % of the cardinals .
Today , 39 % of adults approve of the way Trump is handling his job , while 54 % disapprove . Evaluations are more intense among disapprovers ; 42 % of the public disapproves of the way Trump is handling his job very strongly , while 12 % say they disapprove not so strongly . There is an 18 point gender gap in approval ratings of the president : 48 % of men approve of Trump 's performance , while just 30 % of women say the same .
For Gen Xers , who came of age during a period of high immigration , the pattern holds , but is not quite as stark . In 1998 , when they were ages 18 to 33 , half of Hispanic Gen Xers were U.S. born , compared with a 41 % U.S.-born share when they were ages 34 to 49 in 2014 .
Tolerance for homosexuality is widespread in the U.S. and Western Europe , but far more Western Europeans than Americans say homosexuality should be accepted by society ; at least eight-in-ten in Spain ( 91 % ) , Germany ( 87 % ) , France ( 86 % ) and Britain ( 81 % ) , compared with 60 % in the U.S .
In terms of the division of governing power , younger British adults are significantly less likely to say that some powers currently held by the EU should be returned to national governments . A majority ( 57 % ) of British adults younger than 30 say this , compared with 70 % of those ages 30 to 49 and 82 % of those 50 and older .
The question at the center of the case echoes one the Center posed to Americans last year . In that survey , U.S. adults were evenly divided , with roughly half ( 49 % ) saying businesses should be required to provide wedding services to same-sex couples , and a nearly identical share ( 48 % ) saying that they should be able to refuse to provide services due to religious objections .
In Mexico , most of these issues were more important among people who earn an income above the median . Higher-income Mexicans were particularly likely to say guaranteeing gender equality , protesting police misconduct , promoting a clean environment , ensuring free and fair elections , guaranteeing fair trials and holding the government accountable on human rights issues should be top priorities . Few see human rights organizations as tools of foreign powers . In recent years , several governments around the world have placed restrictions on foreign support for human rights groups and other nongovernmental organizations , with critics often charging that these groups serve the interests of foreign organizations . However , this is not a view shared by the four publics surveyed . When asked whether human rights organizations are primarily dedicated to promoting the interests of foreign groups or protecting the rights of people in their country , strong majorities of Kenyans , Indonesians and Mexicans said such groups are dedicated to helping people in their country . In India , a 43 % plurality said the same , though roughly three-in-ten did not offer an opinion .
Many Americans are skeptical that the advantages of economic globalization outweigh the disadvantages : 49 % of the public said in an April survey that U.S. involvement in the global economy is bad because it lowers wages and costs jobs . That compares with 44 % who said that global economic engagement is good because it opens new markets and creates opportunities for growth . The U.S. public 's divided worldview sharply contrasts with the overwhelming opinion among international relations ( IR ) scholars that America 's involvement in the world economy is good for the nation . In the latest of a series of online `` snap '' polls that ask university-based IR experts their opinion about current policy issues , the Teaching , Research , and International Policy ( TRIP ) Project early this month found that nearly nine-in-ten IR scholars ( 86 % ) see U.S. involvement in the global economy as a positive ; just 2 % of those in the poll say it is a bad thing . Individuals selected for the TRIP survey must be employed at a political science department or professional school of a U.S. college or university and teach or conduct research on issues that cross international borders .
Majorities in the other Western European countries included in the 2009 poll also expressed support for tougher restrictions on immigration . About eight-in-ten in Spain ( 80 % ) and Britain ( 78 % ) shared that view , as did 65 % in Germany and 64 % in France .
While 32 % of mothers with children under age 18 say they would prefer to work full time , only 16 % of all adults say having a mother who works full time is ideal for a young child .
Just prior to Obama taking office in 2009 , more than twice as many said people like them would gain rather than lose influence ( 47 % vs. 18 % ) and the margin was nearly as wide before Clinton took office in January 1993 ( 43 % vs. 22 % ) . In early 2001 , 35 % said people like them would gain influence with Bush in the White House , while 26 % thought they would lose influence .
But Republicans and Republican leaners who agree with the Tea Party like some federal agencies as much as Democrats do . In fact , two-thirds or more viewed four federal agencies or departments favorably – the Department of Defense ( 75 % favorable ) , the Centers for Disease Control ( 72 % ) , NASA ( 70 % ) , and the Department of Veterans Affairs ( 67 % ) – we asked about it under its former name , the Veterans Administration . For all four , there were virtually no differences in the opinions of Republicans and Republican leaners who agree with the Tea Party , those who do not and Democrats and Democratic leaners .
Adults who live in rural communities have historically been the least likely to use social media . In 2005 , 5 % of rural residents , 7 % of suburban residents and 9 % of urban residents reported social media usage . Today , 58 % of rural residents , 68 % of suburban residents and 64 % of urban residents use social media .
White and Black Democrats are nearly equally likely to say that spending should be decreased ( 43 % and 42 % respectively ) ; Hispanic Democrats are somewhat less likely to say this ( 32 % ) . And while 34 % of Hispanic Democrats say funding should be increased , that compares with 23 % of Black Democrats and just 14 % of white Democrats . Younger Democrats are far more likely to say that spending on the police should be decreased . Similar majorities of white ( 57 % ) and Black ( 53 % ) Democrats under the age of 50 say that spending should be decreased , with nearly a third saying it should be decreased a lot ( 30 % and 32 % , respectively ) . By comparison , only about three-in-ten white and Black Democrats ages 50 and older ( 28 % and 29 % , respectively ) say police spending should be decreased .
Looking at specific retail categories , August 2012 sales were most above the January-October average at sporting goods , hobby , book and music stores ( 22.2 % ) ; office supplies , stationery and gift stores ( 13.8 % ) ; and clothing and accessories stores ( 11.6 % ) . The smallest bumps were at general merchandise stores ( 5.5 % ) , electronics and appliance stores ( 5.7 % ) and online and mail-order retailers ( 6.9 % ) .
The survey finds a continuing partisan divide in opinions about global warming : 77 % of Democrats and 63 % of independents say there is solid evidence that the average temperature on earth has been getting warmer over the past few decades . Just 43 % of Republicans agree .
Disabled Americans were politically engaged in the 2016 presidential election . In a survey conducted in the early summer of 2016 , about seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Americans who self-identified as disabled said it `` really matters who wins the election , '' compared with 59 % of Americans who did not report having a disability . Disabled Americans were also more likely to follow the campaign closely than those without a disability . These findings are from the Center 's American Trends Panel , which found that 22 % of American adults self-reported living with a disability in 2016 , defined as a `` health problem , disability , or handicap currently keeping you from participating fully in work , school , housework , or other activities . ''
We examined a comprehensive database of financial crises from 1970 through 2012 compiled and maintained by two economists for the International Monetary Fund to see just how unusual the current situation in Greece is . The IMF economists defined `` systemic banking crises '' as those with both `` significant signs of financial distress in the banking system , '' such as major bank runs , losses and liquidations , and significant policy interventions in response , such as deposit guarantees , nationalizations , recapitalizations , deposit freezes and bank holidays .
In other EU countries , the share of adults who speak the national language at home is smaller , including 90 % in Germany , 89 % in Slovakia , 81 % in Spain and 80 % in Bulgaria . These more diverse linguistic environments sometimes reflect immigration patterns or unique local conditions .
More than 1,800 refugees from Iran , Iraq , Libya , Somalia , Sudan , Syria and Yemen have resettled in the U.S. since a federal court judge suspended key parts of an executive order President Donald Trump signed on Jan. 27 that restricted travel from these seven nations , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. State Department data . Virtually all of these refugees were admitted after a federal court judge suspended the president 's executive order .
Among Clinton supporters , those with a college degree have a harder time respecting someone who prefers Trump than those who have not graduated from college . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) of college graduates who back Clinton say they have a hard time , compared with a narrower majority ( 53 % ) among Clinton supporters who have not completed college .
Consistent with this , as many Romney as Obama voters express strong support for their candidate . This continues the pattern seen in the Pew Research poll in early October , after the first presidential debate , which represented a shift from polling earlier in the year when Romney 's support was much more tepid .
The Census Bureau innovations are driven by the same forces afflicting all organizations that do survey research . People are increasingly reluctant to answer surveys , and the cost of collecting their data is rising . From 1970 to 2010 , the bureau 's cost to count each household quintupled , to $ 98 per household in 2010 dollars , according to the GAO . The Census Bureau estimates that its innovations would save $ 5.2 billion compared with repeating the 2010 census design , so the 2020 census would cost a total of $ 12.5 billion , close to 2010 's $ 12.3 billion price tag ( both in projected 2020 dollars ) .
Yet less than half in either country see the government making significant progress in their fight against criminal organizations . In Mexico , 37 % say the government is winning the campaign against drug traffickers , while 29 % say it is losing ground . Fewer say the government is making progress this year than did so in 2012 ( 47 % ) .
The geographic settlement patterns are to some degree aligned with the diverse countries of origin of the Hispanic population . For example , Mexican origin Hispanics are the dominant group in the Los Angeles-Long Beach metropolitan area , making up 78 % of the area 's Hispanics . They are also the dominant group in many metropolitan areas in the border states of Arizona , California , New Mexico and Texas . But along the East Coast the composition of Hispanic origin groups differs . In the New York-New Jersey metropolitan area , Puerto Ricans and Dominicans are the dominant Hispanic origin groups . In Miami-Hialeah , FL , Cubans are the dominant Hispanic group and in the Washington , D.C. metropolitan areas , Salvadorans are the largest Hispanic origin group among that area 's Hispanics . Nationally , Mexicans are the largest Hispanic origin group , making up 64.6 % of all Hispanics ( Lopez , Gonzalez-Barrera , Cuddington , 2013 ) .
In general , the public continues to blame lawmakers themselves – rather than the political system more generally – for the problems in Congress . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say `` the political system can work fine , it 's the members of Congress that are the problem . '' Just 32 % say `` most members of Congress have good intentions , it 's the political system that is broken . ''
For example , when reported as a whole , the views of Asian Americans naturally represent some groups more than others . The views of Chinese , Indian and Filipino Americans are more heavily represented than those of Pakistani or Laotian Americans because the former groups make up a much larger share of the Asian American population than the latter groups . Critically , the more populous groups tend to have higher income levels and more formal education than the less populous Asian origin groups .
Three-quarters of U.S. adults say technology companies have a responsibility to prevent the misuse of their platforms to influence the 2020 presidential election , but only around a quarter say they are very or somewhat confident in these firms to do so , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted July 27-Aug. 2 . The survey comes as Facebook and other major tech companies make efforts to limit political misinformation ahead of the November election . In the more recent survey , 73 % of adults say they are not too confident or not at all confident in technology companies like Facebook , Twitter and Google to prevent the misuse of their platforms to influence the 2020 presidential election . About a quarter ( 27 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident .
But artificial additives are far from the only ingredient that people restrict in their diet . About four-in-ten Americans ( 38 % ) report limiting sugar intake and about three-in-ten limit salt ( 29 % ) or fat ( 28 % ) .
A look at where refugees to the U.S. have come from and their number provides a glimpse into global events and the U.S. 's role in providing a safe haven . Of the 84,995 refugees admitted to the United States in fiscal year 2016 , the largest numbers came from the Democratic Republic of Congo , Syria , Burma ( Myanmar ) and Iraq .
In a recent report on broadband adoption , we find that internet users who have broadband internet access at home are significantly more likely than those who have dial-up to have ever done certain online activities .4 In many cases , those with high-speed internet access at home are also significantly more likely than dial-up users to do these activities on a typical day . Over time , podcast downloading has been a key activity that internet users are much more likely to do if they have broadband access . Internet users who subscribe to premium home broadband services are even more likely to download podcasts . Internet users with broadband and premium broadband access at home are also significantly more likely than the average internet user to have ever downloaded a podcast .
The internet ranks high among sources of information and advice that people are seeking during hard times , especially when it comes to their personal finances and economic circumstances . At the same time , broadcast media outpace the internet as sources of news about national economics and broadcast sources still overshadow the internet among all Americans for information and advice related to their personal financial circumstances .
Views of Obama 's accomplishments in office fall between those of George W. Bush and Clinton . By more than two-to-one , the public thought Bush 's failures would outweigh his accomplishments ( 64 % vs. 24 % ) , while the inverse was true for Clinton ( 27 % vs. 60 % ) .
On average , posts about sexual misconduct during the time frame under study generated more engagement – in terms of `` likes '' and comments – than all other posts from both men and women in Congress . For women in Congress , posts discussing sexual misconduct received 68 % more likes and 56 % more comments on average , when compared with the number of likes and comments each female legislator typically received on other posts she made during the same time period . Among male legislators , posts about sexual misconduct saw an average of 52 % more likes and 70 % more comments than usual .
Most Do Not Think Military Campaign Is Going Well . In the new poll , just 30 % say the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria is going very well or fairly well . About twice as many ( 62 % ) say it is going not too well or not at all well . The share giving the military campaign a positive assessment has dipped six points ( from 36 % ) since February .
The public appears to view economic indicators – both good and bad – with a measure of caution . For example , 21 % say they are hearing mostly bad news about the stock market while 13 % say it is mostly good ; 49 % say it is mixed . Last June , opinions were more positive – 24 % said the stock market news was mostly good while 16 % said it was mostly bad . Yet half said the stock market news was mixed , virtually the same as today . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 6 - 9 among 1,004 adults , finds that views about news on other economic sectors are mostly unchanged since December . More are hearing good news about real estate values ( 25 % ) than bad news ( 19 % ) ; while it is the only economic sector registering more good news than bad news , a 44 % plurality still says it is hearing mixed news . Regarding the job situation , more of the public is hearing mostly bad news ( 42 % ) than mostly good news ( 12 % ) . Views of news about gas prices have become much more positive over the past year . Currently , as many say news about gas prices is mixed as say it is mostly bad ( 39 % each ) ; 14 % say news about gas prices is mostly good . A year ago , 53 % said news about gas prices was mostly bad and , as prices climbed in March , the percentage with a negative assessment of news about gas prices surged to 74 % . But as gas prices have fallen , perceptions have improved .
And when asked about four possible reasons for the public having limited science knowledge , three-quarters of AAAS scientists in the new survey say too little K-12 STEM education is a major factor .
The survey also finds widespread concern about rising prices : 85 % say this is a major problem in the country . And at least two-thirds also say a lack of employment opportunities and the gap between the rich and the poor are very big problems . In addition to economic concerns , large majorities also describe crime ( 83 % ) , health care ( 83 % ) , political corruption ( 78 % ) and poor quality schools ( 64 % ) as major problems . To be sure , these are not new challenges in Brazil . Pew Research surveys conducted since 2010 have documented similarly widespread concern with a range of social , political and economic issues , including crime , corruption and inflation . But the current level of frustration Brazilians express with their country 's direction , its economy and its leaders is unmatched in recent years .
Americans have a favorable opinion of NASA . In a January 2015 survey , 68 % of Americans expressed a favorable view of NASA , similar to that of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention among the eight federal agencies we asked about . ( Seven-in-ten had a favorable view of the CDC . ) This was in line with similar favorable ratings for NASA in the past .
For more than a decade , the Census Bureau has been developing an alternative measure of poverty that is intended to better reflect the costs of basic living expenses as well as the resources people have to pay them . The bureau has just released results for 2010 from the alternative metric—called the Supplemental Poverty Measure ( SPM ) —that uses a wider range of factors than the official federal measure to determine poverty status . Compared with the official measure , SPM figures released by the Census Bureau show a higher national poverty rate for 2010 , 16.0 % , compared with the official poverty rate of 15.2 % ( Short , 2011 ) .1 The number of poor people in 2010 was 49.1 million using the alternative measure , compared with 46.6 million using the official measure . Using the SPM also resulted in higher poverty rates for some groups and lower poverty rates for others , when compared with the official measure . Among the nation 's largest racial and ethnic groups , poverty rates using the alternative measure are higher than official poverty rates for Hispanics , whites2 and Asians , but are lower for blacks . For Hispanics , the SPM poverty rate ( 28.2 % ) was 1.5 percentage points higher than the official poverty rate of 26.7 % . For whites , the SPM poverty rate was 11.1 % while the official poverty rate was 10.0 % . For Asians , the SPM poverty rate was 16.7 % versus the official poverty rate of 12.1 % . By contrast , the SPM poverty rate for blacks , 25.4 % in 2010 , was 2.1 percentage points lower than the official poverty rate of 27.5 % .
In 2011 , nearly two-thirds ( 64.6 % ) of U.S. Hispanics , or 33.5 million , traced their family origins to Mexico , according to Pew Research Center tabulations of the 2011 American Community Survey ( ACS ) . By comparison , Puerto Ricans , the nation 's second largest Hispanic-origin group , number about 5 million and make up 9.5 % of the total Hispanic population in the 50 states and the District of Columbia .
The tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran are often characterized as sectarian – that is , Iran and its Shia allies versus Saudi Arabia and its Sunni brethren . And this characterization plays out to a large degree in public attitudes toward the two countries in five Middle Eastern nations Pew Research Center surveyed in spring 2015 . In Jordan , a predominantly Sunni Muslim nation , 78 % of the public have a favorable view of Saudi Arabia , compared with only 8 % who have a positive opinion of Iran .
As with overall interest and engagement in politics , there are sizable age differences in how frequently politics comes up in conversation among couples . Only about a quarter of those younger than 30 ( 24 % ) say politics comes up very often in conversation , the lowest share of any age category . Among voters 65 and older , 63 % say they talk about politics with their spouse or partner very often .
The two publics also have different perspectives on the core elements of the U.S.-German relationship . A 45 % plurality of Germans believe economic and trade ties are the most important component of the relationship , while just around one-third point toward shared democratic values . Only 16 % say security and defense ties are most important .
France 's image is largely negative in four of the six Middle Eastern countries polled . Majorities of Turks ( 73 % ) , Jordanians ( 61 % ) , Egyptians ( 61 % ) , and Palestinians ( 57 % ) rate France negatively . However , even though Tunisians disapprove of the intervention in Mali , 63 % in the former French protectorate hold a favorable view of France . The Lebanese are split , with 51 % expressing a positive opinion and 48 % a negative one . Roughly six-in-ten Lebanese Sunni ( 63 % ) and Christians ( 57 % ) have a favorable opinion of France , but only around two-in-ten Lebanese Shia ( 18 % ) agree .
The reasons people give for not upgrading to a smartphone vary substantially by age . Younger non-adopters are much more likely than older ones to say that cost is the main factor preventing them from purchasing a smartphone , while older non-adopters are more likely to point towards a lack of need or interest , or towards challenges with using a more advanced device .
Among U.S. adults who attend religious services at least a few times a year , Catholics are less likely than Protestants to say they have a `` very '' or `` somewhat '' close relationship with their clergy . Six-in-ten Catholics ( 61 % ) say this , compared with about eight-in-ten Protestants ( 78 % ) . Just 8 % of Catholics say they are very close with their clergy , compared with a quarter of Protestants . And while only 22 % of Protestants say they are not close with the clergy at their church , the share among Catholics is nearly twice as high ( 39 % ) . Among specific Protestant groups , those in the evangelical ( 80 % ) and historically black traditions ( 81 % ) are more likely than mainline Protestants ( 71 % ) to say their relationship with their clergy is at least somewhat close . All three Protestant groups , however , say they have a closer relationship with their clergy than Catholics do .
Unlike the unemployment rate , which can be affected by how many jobless people actively look for work , the employment-to-population ratio ( sometimes called the employment rate ) looks at employed adults as a share of the total civilian noninstitutional population ; examining just 25- to 54-year-olds takes out most students and retirees . Despite some recent improvement , the June employment rate of 75.9 % is still well below pre-recession levels , which typically were close to or above 80 % . And the flatness in the rate indicates the economy is n't doing much more than adding enough jobs to keep up with population growth .
Seven-in-ten women see online harassment as a major problem . A January Pew Research Center survey asked Americans about online harassment , which was defined using six categories of behavior : offensive name-calling , purposeful embarrassment , physical threats , stalking , sexual harassment , or harassment over a sustained period of time . Women were more likely than men to view online harassment as a major problem ( 70 % vs. 54 % ) . Women were also more likely than men to say offensive content online is too often dismissed as not a big deal ( 50 % vs. 35 % ) and to say people should be able to feel welcome and safe in online spaces ( 63 % vs. 43 % ) .
The overall size of the U.S. military has been on a downward trajectory for several decades . Some of the declines in military participation that followed the Cold War and Gulf War were halted with the 9/11 terrorist attacks . Later , conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan increased the overall size of the military .
The Center 's survey found other indications that gun owners are more politically engaged than non-gun owners . For example , while only 16 % of U.S. adults say they 've ever given money to an organization that takes a position on gun policy , gun owners are again more likely than non-gun owners to say they have done so . Among gun owners , 28 % say they have ever given money to an organization like this , including 12 % of who have done so in the past year . The same is true for just 10 % of non-owners , including 6 % who have done so in the past year .
Few ( 4 % ) say they followed recent news about historically low interest rates for banks and home mortgages most closely ; 16 % say they followed this news very closely . This news accounted for 1 % of coverage . Just 2 % say their top story was new policies announced by Google about how the internet giant would track people 's web use ; 7 % say they followed this news very closely . The story made up less than 1 % of the week 's newshole .
A sizable majority of U.S. adults use Facebook and most of its users get news on the site . But a new Pew Research Center survey finds that notable shares of Facebook users ages 18 and older lack a clear understanding of how the site 's news feed operates , feel ordinary users have little control over what appears there , and have not actively tried to influence the content the feed delivers to them . The findings from the survey – conducted May 29-June 11 – come amid a debate over the power of major online platforms , the algorithms that underpin those platforms and the nature of the content those algorithms surface to users . Facebook 's broad reach and impact mean that its news feed is one of the most prominent examples of a content algorithm in many Americans ' lives . When asked whether they understand why certain posts but not others are included in their news feed , around half of U.S. adults who use Facebook ( 53 % ) say they do not – with 20 % saying they do not understand the feed at all well . Older users are especially likely to say they do not understand the workings of the news feed : Just 38 % of Facebook users ages 50 and older say they have a good understanding of why certain posts are included in it , compared with 59 % of users ages 18 to 29 .
Across 34 countries surveyed , a median of 65 % of adults said they felt generally pessimistic about reducing the gap between the rich and the poor in their country . Many also held doubts about the way their political system works ( median of 54 % ) and the availability of well-paying jobs in their country ( 53 % ) . When it comes to their country 's education system , however , more people expressed optimism than pessimism ( 53 % vs. 41 % ) .
America 's current image in Germany is generally poor , but that has not always been the case . As recently as 2016 , 86 % of Germans had confidence in then-President Barack Obama and 57 % had a favorable view of the United States .
Views of the U.S. are favorable on balance , but concerns are evident . Across the 25 countries surveyed , a median of 50 % have a favorable opinion of the U.S. , while 43 % have an unfavorable view . Likewise , a median of 51 % say the U.S. respects the personal freedoms of its people , compared with 37 % who say it does not . However , there is international concern about America 's role in world affairs . Large majorities say the U.S. does n't take the interests of other countries into account when making foreign policy decisions . Also , a global median of 37 % believe the U.S. is doing less to help address major global problems than it used to .
When asked whether they personally know someone who has had an abortion – such as a close friend , family member or the respondent themselves – 57 % of the public says they know someone who has had an abortion ; 42 % say they do not . About half or more across most demographic groups say they know someone who has had an abortion . Women ( 63 % ) are 12 percentage points more likely than men ( 51 % ) to say they personally know someone who has had an abortion . Across age groups , the youngest adults ages 18 to 29 ( 48 % ) are less likely than older adults – particularly those ages 50 to 64 – to say they know someone who has had an abortion .
Across predominantly Muslim nations , there is little enthusiasm for the extremist Islamic organizations Hamas and Hezbollah , although there are pockets of support for both groups , especially in the Middle East . Four years after its victory in Palestinian parliamentary elections , Hamas receives relatively positive ratings in Jordan ( 56 % favorable ) and Egypt ( 52 % ) . However , Palestinians are more likely to give the group a negative ( 52 % ) than a positive ( 44 % ) rating . And reservations about Hamas are particularly common in the portion of the Palestinian territories it controls — just 37 % in Gaza express a favorable opinion , compared with 47 % in the West Bank . A survey conducted May 18 to June 16 , 2009 by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project also finds limited support for the Lebanese Shia organization Hezbollah .1 While most Palestinians ( 61 % ) and about half of Jordanians ( 51 % ) have a favorable view of Hezbollah , elsewhere opinions are less positive , including Egypt ( 43 % ) and Lebanon ( 35 % ) . As with many issues in Lebanon , views of Hezbollah are sharply divided along religious lines : nearly all of the country 's Shia Muslims ( 97 % ) express a positive opinion of the organization , while only 18 % of Christians and 2 % of Sunni Muslims feel this way . Meanwhile , Turks overwhelmingly reject both groups — just 5 % give Hamas a positive rating and only 3 % say this about Hezbollah . There is also little support among Israel 's Arab population for either Hamas ( 21 % favorable ) or Hezbollah ( 27 % ) . Outside of the Middle East , many in Pakistan , Indonesia , and Nigeria are unable to offer an opinion about these groups .
The share of Americans ranking illegal immigration as a top priority has fallen to 39 % from 46 % a year ago and 55 % in 2007 . This decline has occurred across party lines , with a notable drop among Republicans . In 2007 , illegal immigration was the second-highest priority after terrorism for Republicans , with 69 % rating it as a top priority . Today , 48 % of Republicans rate it as a top priority , placing it behind 11 other priorities .
However , the NCES data only run through the 2010 - 11 school year . That year there were 31 `` school-associated violent deaths , '' the fewest since the report 's coverage began in 1992 - 93 . But that was before 20 students and six adults were killed at Sandy Hook . Based on preliminary counts from media reports , the report indicated that there were 17 subsequent school-associated violent deaths — 11 homicides and six suicides — between Sandy Hook and November 2013 . As the report notes , such incidents are as rare as they are tragic . In 2010 - 11 , for instance , 11 children and youths ( ages 5 to 18 ) were murdered at school , less than 1 % of the 1,336 total homicides among that age group that year ; suicides at school were even rarer .
Police work is marked by conflicting experiences and emotions . While about six-in-ten officers ( 58 % ) say they nearly always or often feel proud about their work , about half ( 51 % ) say it always or often makes them feel frustrated .
While texting , talking , emailing and going online dominate , a majority of Americans also use their smartphones for social networking , taking photos or videos , and catching up with the news . A vast majority of smartphone owners say they used their phone for text messaging , voice and video calling , email and accessing the internet at least once over a weeklong `` experience sampling '' study . Besides these four activities , other smartphone apps were also popular . Three-quarters of smartphone owners reported using their phone for social media , while 60 % took pictures or a video , and more than half ( 55 % ) got news on their smartphone at least once over the course of the one-week survey period . Smartphones serve as an access point for navigating a wide array of important life events , from health conditions to new jobs . Roughly six-in-ten ( 62 % ) smartphone owners have used their phone to get information about a health condition in the past year , similar to the percentage who say they 've used their smartphone for online banking . Americans are not only using their smartphone to find information about jobs , but they 're also using their phones to apply . Fully 18 % of smartphone owners overall have submitted a job application via their mobile device , and among those whose household income is less than $ 30,000 , that share is substantially higher , at 32 % .
The public 's views of torture against suspected terrorists have remained generally stable over the past decade . One-in-five ( 20 % ) say the use of torture against suspected terrorists can often be justified to gain important information . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say it can sometimes be justified , 20 % think it can rarely be justified , and 27 % say it can never be justified . Among Republicans , three-in-ten ( 30 % ) think that the use of torture against suspected terrorists can often be justified , 38 % sometimes justified , 16 % rarely justified , and 11 % never justified . Just 11 % of Democrats say this practice can often be justified , 25 % sometimes , 21 % rarely , and a plurality ( 40 % ) say it can never be justified . In both parties , there is an ideological divide in terms of these attitudes . While 35 % of conservative Republicans say torture to gain information from suspected terrorists can often be justified , just 21 % of moderate and liberal Republicans agree . And about half ( 51 % ) of liberal Democrats say the use of torture can never be justified , compared with 32 % of moderates and conservatives in the party .
The vote to leave reflects the desire of nearly two-thirds of the UK public to bring back some EU powers from Brussels to London . Fully 65 % of the British said before the referendum that they wanted some EU powers to be returned to their national government . This included 73 % of those ages 50 and older , 70 % of men , 68 % of those with a secondary education or less , 93 % of UK Independence Party supporters , 77 % of Conservative Party adherents and 49 % of Labour Party backers .
But in Britain worries about Islamic extremism are intense among both the general public and the Muslim minority population as well . Concerns about the problem rose markedly this year among the general public . And worries about extremism within the British Muslim community are greater than in France , Germany , and Spain .
As Donald Trump 's administration reviews U.S. policies on the detainment and interrogation of terrorism suspects , the public is divided over whether it is ever acceptable for the country to use torture in anti-terror efforts . Overall , 48 % say there are some circumstances under which the use of torture is acceptable in U.S. anti-terrorism efforts ; about as many ( 49 % ) say there are no circumstances under which the use of torture is acceptable . The national survey of 4,265 adults conducted just before the presidential election ( Oct. 25-Nov. 8 ) on Pew Research Center 's nationally representative American Trends Panel finds wide demographic and political differences in views of torture . About seven-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 71 % ) say there are some circumstances where it is acceptable for the U.S. to use torture . By contrast , 67 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say there are no circumstances under which this is acceptable . Within both parties there are differences in views by ideology : Conservative Republicans are 18 percentage points more likely than moderate and liberal Republicans to say there are circumstances where it is acceptable for the U.S. to use torture in anti-terrorism efforts ( 79 % vs. 61 % ) ; among Democrats , liberals are 11 points more likely than moderates and conservatives to say there are no circumstances where the U.S. use of torture is acceptable ( 74 % vs. 63 % ) .
Math is popular among many students , with close to half describing it as one of their favorite subjects . Nearly half of eighth-grade students in the U.S. strongly agree ( 21 % ) or agree ( 26 % ) with the statement , `` Math is one of my favorite subjects , '' according to a Pew Research Center analysis of NAEP data . Even more students say they like math in general , with 64 % of eighth-graders agreeing with this statement . Most students also describe math as something fun and a subject that they would not like to give up , though only 13 % say this strongly describes their views .
The differences in projected growth were even more pronounced when looking at social skills , which Pew Research Center defines as encompassing interpersonal skills , written and spoken communication skills , and management or leadership skills . Employment in occupations that require average to above-average levels of such social skills is projected to grow by 8.1 % , versus just 4.4 % growth for occupations requiring below-average levels of those skills .
On these questions about democracy , the gaps between the middle class and those with smaller incomes are not always large , but they are reasonably consistent – and sometimes they are quite pronounced . For instance , six-in-ten middle-class Poles rated a free press very important , compared with 42 % of their lower-income compatriots . More than two-thirds ( 68 % ) among the South African middle class said a fair judicial system is very important , but only half ( 50 % ) of those with lower incomes agreed . The middle class is also different when it comes to the role of freedom in their own lives . When asked to choose which is most important to them personally , free speech , freedom of religion , freedom from hunger and poverty , or freedom from crime and violence – essentially Franklin Roosevelt 's `` four freedoms '' – the global middle class was more likely than others to prioritize being able to speak freely in public . Lower-income respondents , on the other hand , were more likely to emphasize being free from hunger and poverty .
Many Americans say Russia 's power and influence are a major threat to the U.S . While Russians see greater global influence for their country , around half of Americans ( 52 % ) said in an October 2017 survey that Russia 's `` power and influence '' constitute a major threat to U.S. well-being , compared with 38 % who said Russian power is a minor threat and 9 % who said it is not a threat . These views varied substantially by party . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents were far more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say Russia 's power and influence are a major threat ( 63 % vs. 38 % ) . For many years , Republicans and Democrats generally shared views on Russia 's threat level , but partisan differences increased sharply after the 2016 U.S. presidential election .
For example , Europeans with favorable views of right-wing populist parties are less likely to say most people can be trusted . In France , just three-in-ten supporters of the National Rally party say people can be trusted , compared with 55 % of those with an unfavorable opinion of the party . In the Netherlands , supporters of two populist parties , Party for Freedom ( PVV ) and the Forum for Democracy ( FvD ) , are also less likely to say most people can be trusted .
The Southern Baptist Convention is the biggest Protestant denomination in the United States , accounting for 5.3 % of the U.S. adult population , according to Pew Research Center 's 2014 Religious Landscape Study . America 's second-largest Protestant group , the mainline United Methodist Church , accounts for 3.6 % of U.S. adults . Southern Baptists make up about a fifth of all U.S. evangelical Protestants ( 21 % ) . The total number of Southern Baptists in the U.S. – and their share of the population – is falling . When the first Religious Landscape Study was conducted in 2007 , Southern Baptists accounted for 6.7 % of the U.S. adult population ( compared with 5.3 % in 2014 ) . And according to the SBC 's official membership tally , there were 14.8 million members of all ages in 2018 , down about 1 % from a year ago – part of a longer pattern of decline .
Looking ahead , the public 's forecast for the national economy has deteriorated . A year ago , nearly three times as many Americans expected the economy to be better as worse in the next year ( 44 % vs. 14 % ) . Today , just a quarter ( 25 % ) expect economic conditions to be better a year from now , while nearly a third ( 32 % ) say conditions will be worse .
The deadly shooting spree at a shopping mall in Omaha , Nebraska was the most closely followed news story last week . Three-in-ten followed the shooting very closely and 26 % listed this as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . The national news media devoted 7 % of its overall coverage to this story — making it the third most heavily covered news story of the week . The shooting received the most coverage from online news outlets and network TV news . The campaign was also a top news story last week . Roughly a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) followed campaign news very closely and 22 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week .
Wages have also increased more among jobs requiring higher social or analytical skills . From 1990 to 2015 , the average hourly wage for occupations requiring higher levels of analytical skills rose from $ 23 to $ 27 . Similarly , the mean wage for occupations requiring higher levels of social skills rose from $ 22 to $ 26 per hour . By contrast , the mean hourly wage for jobs requiring average or above average physical skills only rose from $ 16 to $ 18 .
Two years ago , Pew Research Center chronicled the rise of Americans who say they do n't have any religious affiliation . This year , we found another big trend in religion : an exodus among Catholics from the church in Latin America , where nearly 40 % of the world 's total Catholic population lives . Identification with Catholicism has declined throughout the region , as many Latin Americans have joined evangelical Protestant churches or rejected organized religion altogether .
The Middle East stands out among the regions surveyed for its relatively high rates of participation . In the home of the Arab Spring and its aftermath , a median of 53 % fall into the `` high '' category of our participation index . Egypt , in particular , stands out . Twice in recent years , Egyptians have poured into the streets to oust a president – Hosni Mubarak in 2011 and Mohamed Morsi in 2013 – and 47 % of Egyptians say they have participated in a protest at some point , the highest percentage among the nations surveyed .
Americans who prefer to get their local news in print are much more likely to pay for it than those who prefer other platforms . About four-in-ten of these news consumers ( 39 % ) say they have paid for local news in the past year . That is more than double the share among those who prefer to get news either from the radio ( 16 % ) or news websites or apps ( 12 % ) , and around four times the share of those who prefer to get local news from TV ( 10 % ) . It also far exceeds the share among those who prefer to get local news via social media ( 8 % ) . Print news consumers are also more pessimistic about the financial well-being of their local news media when compared with most other groups . Almost six-in-ten print consumers ( 63 % ) think their local news media outlets are doing well financially , 15 percentage points lower than the share among those who prefer TV for local news ( 77 % ) . Those who prefer radio are about on par with those who prefer print , while those who prefer digital platforms fall in between .
The six countries where confidence in Merkel is now at its highest level on record are the United Kingdom ( where 76 % have confidence in her ) , Canada ( 74 % ) , Spain and Australia ( both 72 % ) , Japan ( 67 % ) and the United States ( 61 % ) . In France and Italy , confidence in Merkel was higher prior to the eurozone crisis than it is now . And in Japan , the Netherlands , South Korea and Sweden , more people had confidence in Merkel in the years following the height of the refugee crisis than currently .
Europe 's economy has lagged the U.S. for the past few years . In 2013 , for example , U.S. real gross domestic product grew 2.2 % — not especially strong , but nearly Schwarzeneggerian compared with the 0.1 % real GDP growth managed by the European Union . And while U.S. growth accelerated to a 4.6 % annualized rate in the second quarter ( the first read on third-quarter GDP is due out Oct. 30 ) , EU growth remains anemic : Earlier this month , the International Monetary Fund projected that the advanced European economies would grow just 1.3 % this year , versus 2.2 % for the U.S .
Though ratings for the EU are generally positive , views of the European Parliament and European Commission are more divided . A median of 50 % have a positive opinion of the European Parliament and 48 % view the European Commission favorably . As with attitudes toward the EU more broadly , Poles have some of the most positive views of these institutions while Greeks are much more negative . Roughly two-thirds of Greeks view the European Commission ( 66 % ) and Parliament ( 65 % ) unfavorably . Evaluations of these European institutions have stayed mostly the same since 2014 , when the question was last asked , although ratings have become more favorable in Spain and Italy . For example , in Spain in 2014 , roughly a third viewed the European Parliament ( 32 % ) and European Commission ( 30 % ) positively . In 2018 , the share increased to around 50 % for both bodies ( 52 % and 51 % , respectively ) .
As of fall 2009 , seven-in-ten ( 70 % ) Czechs were dissatisfied with the way things were going in their country . Roughly eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) described the current economic situation in the Czech Republic as somewhat or very bad , with many ( 32 % ) saying very bad .
To be sure , a substantial share of Americans ( 43 % ) say they did n't attend religious services in person before the pandemic struck and they do n't plan to start going to a church or other house of worship when it 's all over . But 42 % of U.S. adults say they plan to resume going to religious services about as often as they did before the outbreak , while 10 % say they will go more often than they used to , and just 5 % anticipate going less often . Similarly , a lot of Americans are not interested in virtual services : Two-thirds of U.S. adults say they have not watched religious services online or on TV in the past month . But of the one-third of U.S. adults who recently watched services online or on TV , relatively few ( 19 % of this group , or 6 % of all adults ) say that once the pandemic is over , they intend to watch religious services more often than they did before it started .
Graduates in STEM fields accounted for at least 70 % of OPT approvals from India , Iran , Bangladesh and Sri Lanka from 2012 to 2015 . Of the 72,151 from India employed under OPT , 84 % had STEM degrees , the highest percentage of any origin country . Iran ( 79 % ) , Bangladesh ( 74 % ) and Sri Lanka ( 70 % ) also had high shares of STEM graduates . Among those from China , 54 % went to STEM graduates .
Here 's one example : Given the considerable attention that China has received for its investments in Africa , how do people in key African nations see China and its leadership ? As of 2019 , public opinion toward China runs more positive than negative in three sub-Saharan African countries surveyed by the Center : Nigeria , Kenya and South Africa . Majorities in Nigeria and Kenya have a positive impression of China ( 70 % and 58 % , respectively ) , while South Africans are a bit more divided ( 46 % favorable , 35 % unfavorable ) . The pattern is similar when it comes to views of China 's leader , President Xi Jinping . Majorities in Nigeria and Kenya express confidence in Xi to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs ( 61 % and 58 % , respectively ) . Among people in South Africa , 52 % have confidence in Xi while 29 % do not .
U.S. deportations of immigrants reached a record high in 2013 . The Obama administration deported a record 438,421 unauthorized immigrants in fiscal year 2013 , continuing a streak of stepped up enforcement that has resulted in more than 2 million deportations since Obama took office , according to Department of Homeland Security data . Up to that point , the current administration deported about as many immigrants in five years as the George W. Bush administration deported in eight years . A survey conducted in February found the public evenly divided over whether the increase in deportations was a good or a bad thing .
There are partisan differences in views of government support for all groups included in the survey . However , the gap is somewhat narrower in views of government help for older people than for other groups . While 73 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the federal government does not do enough for older people , a smaller majority of Republicans ( 58 % ) say the same . The partisan gap is much wider in views of government help for younger people . Nearly seven-in-ten Democrats ( 69 % ) say the federal government does not provide enough help for younger people . Republicans are divided : Nearly equal shares say the government does too little ( 29 % ) and too much ( 27 % ) for younger people , while 36 % say it provides about the right amount of help . In addition , there are sizable age differences in views of government help for younger people – but not in how much the government does for older people . A majority of those younger than 50 ( 58 % ) say the government does not do enough for younger people , compared with 44 % of those 50 and older . Nearly identical shares of those under 50 ( 65 % ) and those 50 and older ( 66 % ) say the federal government does not do enough for older people .
A similar share of Americans report that they read for pleasure , for work or school , or to keep up with current events compared to the most recent time these questions were asked in 2011 . However , the share of Americans who read in order to research specific topics of interest has increased by 10-percentage points over that time frame , from 74 % to 84 % .
President Obama himself also enjoys high ratings from South Koreans . In the most recent survey , 77 % express confidence in the American president 's ability to handle world affairs , with only 20 % saying they lack confidence in him . Similar percentages voiced positive evaluations of Obama in the years after his initial election . Assessments of former President Bush were much harsher . When he left office in 2008 , only three-in-ten South Koreans had confidence in Bush , while 64 % had little or no confidence .
Americans focused most closely last week on news about the nation 's troubled economy amid concerns about the stalled recovery and fears of a possible new recession . About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy more closely than any other news . That is three times the number saying their top story was news about the candidates for the 2012 presidential election ( 14 % ) , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Aug. 18 - 21 among 1,007 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Economic news topped coverage as well , accounting for a quarter of the newshole ( 25 % ) , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . News about the 2012 elections made up 13 % of all news coverage .
Young people in both countries express more favorable attitudes of the other nation . Americans ages 18 - 29 are more than twice as likely as those ages 50 or older to have a favorable opinion of China ( 55 % vs. 27 % ) . Similarly , 59 % of Chinese adults under 30 give the U.S. a positive rating , compared with 29 % of those 50 and older . And younger Chinese also find U.S. soft power more appealing – for example , 59 % said they like American ideas about democracy in our 2012 poll , compared with 40 % of the 50 and older group .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 25 - 29 among 1,005 adults , finds that 26 % overall say they are angry at the federal government , while 51 % feel frustrated . Just 17 % say they are basically content with the government . As in the past , substantial majorities across the political spectrum are either angry or frustrated with the federal government . But anger at the government is far more widespread among conservative Republicans than other partisan groups . This marks a change from 2011 , when political independents ( 30 % angry ) were about as likely as conservative Republicans ( 32 % ) to express anger at the federal government . In the new survey , 41 % of conservative Republicans say they feel angry at the government , compared with 27 % of independents . Conservative Republicans are roughly twice as likely as liberal Democrats to say they are angry with government ( 41 % vs. 18 % ) .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted April 23 - 30 among 1,000 Americans , finds that Winfrey 's image has continued to decline among Republicans . Currently , 59 % of Republicans say they have a favorable opinion of Winfrey down from 64 % last October , and 75 % in January 2007 . About a third of Republicans ( 32 % ) now view Winfrey unfavorably , up substantially since January 2007 ( 21 % ) .
Overall , there are 4.7 million children of unauthorized migrants , of whom only 1.6 million or 33 % are unauthorized themselves according to the chart on page 18 . An even smaller share , 20 % of unauthorized children , or 920,000 , are in families where everyone is unauthorized ( or `` not mixed '' families . Thus , 80 % of the children of unauthorized migrants are in mixed status families . Over half of the children of unauthorized migrant—55 % or 2.6 million children—are in families where all of the children are U.S. citizens . Another 620,000 U.S. citizen children and 580,000 unauthorized children are in unauthorized families where some of the siblings are unauthorized and some are U.S. citizens . These mixed status families with mixed status children include about 25 % of all of the children of unauthorized migrants .
A 2018 Center survey found that some Facebook users had recently taken steps to moderate their use of the site – such as deleting the Facebook app from their phone or taking a break from the platform for some time . But despite these findings and amid some high profile controversies , Facebook users as a whole are just as active on the site today as they were a year ago . Roughly three-quarters of Facebook users ( 74 % ) visit the site daily , including about half who do so several times a day . These shares are identical to those reported by Facebook users in the Center 's 2018 social media use survey . Majorities of Snapchat and Instagram users also say they visit these sites daily , though they are slightly less likely than Facebook users to do so . The shares of young adults using these platforms daily are especially large . Roughly eight-in-ten Snapchat users ages 18 to 29 ( 77 % ) say they use the app every day , including 68 % who say they do so multiple times day . Similarly , 76 % of Instagram users in this age group visit the site on a daily basis , with 60 % reporting that they do so several times per day . These patterns are largely similar to what the Center found in 2018 . Other platforms are visited somewhat less frequently . Some 51 % of YouTube users say they visit the site daily – a slight increase from the 45 % who said this in 2018 .
On a question about morality , Hispanic teens hold different opinions from their White , non-Hispanic peers . Hispanic teens are about evenly split on the question of whether it is necessary to believe in God in order to be moral and have good values : 50 % say it is not necessary , while 48 % say it is . By comparison , 71 % of White teens say that a belief in God is unnecessary to be moral and 28 % say it is necessary .
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security data analysis shows the number of unaccompanied minors apprehended at the border who originated from Mexico , Honduras , El Salvador , Guatemala and other countries from Oct. 1 , 2012 through May 31 , 2014 . Although the specific reasons for migration to the U.S. may vary , Central Americans of all ages are fleeing some of the highest murder rates in the world , but females face additional danger .
From smartphones to social media , tech use has become the norm . As of 2019 , nine-in-ten U.S. adults say they go online , 81 % say they own a smartphone and 72 % say they use social media . Growth in adoption of some technologies has slowed in recent years , in some instances because there just are n't many non-users left , especially among younger generations . For example , 93 % of Millennials ( ages 23 to 38 in 2019 ) own smartphones , and nearly 100 % say they use the internet .
Americans in both major parties now see China much more negatively than in the recent past , but Republicans are more likely than Democrats to express skepticism across a range of measures , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The survey , conducted in June and July , comes as Donald Trump and Joe Biden both make China a key campaign issue ahead of the U.S. presidential election in November . Republicans have long held more unfavorable views of China than Democrats , but unfavorable views have climbed rapidly among both parties over the past year . In the new survey , 83 % of Republicans and those who lean to the Republican Party say they have an unfavorable view of China , compared with 68 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners – record highs for both groups . The 15 percentage point gap between the parties is also among the widest in Pew Research Center surveys dating to 2005 . Republicans are also much more likely than Democrats to say they have a very unfavorable view of China ( 54 % vs. 35 % ) .
And voters who support both Trump and Biden say their differences extend beyond policies to disagreements over core values . Overwhelming shares of voters who support each candidate say that , when asked to think about those who favor their opposing candidate , they not only have different views on politics and policies , they also have `` fundamental disagreements on core American values and goals . '' Roughly eight-in-ten of those who support Biden ( 80 % ) and Trump ( 77 % ) say they fundamentally disagree about core values ; only about one-in-five say their differences are limited to politics and policies .
About six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) say that making the tax system more fair should be a top priority for the president and Congress this year . It ranks among the top 10 issue priorities , well above items like immigration or the environment , and nearly on par with perennially top-tier issues like education ( 65 % top priority ) . Democrats and independents rate this as a more critical issue than do Republicans , but half of Republicans say this should be a top priority in 2012 . About two-thirds of Americans with household incomes under $ 75,000 rate this as a top priority , compared with about half of those earning $ 75,000 or more .
These positive evaluations also extended to the Brussels-based institution , more broadly , which a median of 66 % rated favorably this summer . In Germany , EU favorability reached a record high in the more than 15 years Pew Research Center has been surveying on the topic , with 73 % of Germans offering positive assessments of the bloc . In most other EU member states surveyed , ratings largely held steady or improved since last year . In the United Kingdom – in the Center 's first survey of the country since it formally left the EU on Jan. 31 , 2020 – the 60 % who said they had positive views of the EU is also a historic high , and up 6 percentage points since last year .
The public expresses broadest support for increased federal spending on veterans benefits . Overall , 75 % say that , if they were making up the budget for the federal government this year , they would increase spending on veterans benefits and services ; 21 % say they would keep spending the same , while just 3 % would decrease spending . On a range of other programs , there is widespread public support for either increasing spending or maintaining it at current levels . For example , 50 % say they would increase spending on health care , while 29 % would keep it the same ; just 18 % say they would cut federal health care spending .
Emotional reactions to the news have followed the same pattern in reverse . The proportion saying that watching TV coverage of the war made them feel sad or was frightening to watch peaked March 25 - 27 ( at 67 % and 58 % , respectively ) and has since fallen ( to 62 % and 50 % , respectively ) in the latest poll . Somewhat fewer ( 37 % ) say the war coverage tires them out than was the case last week ( 42 % ) .
In assessing Trump 's ideology , identical shares of Trump and Clinton supporters ( 45 % each ) say he has conservative views on most or almost all issues . But more Clinton than Trump supporters say Trump is conservative on almost all issues ( 21 % vs. 10 % ) .
U.S. military veterans and their families have consistently had higher standards of living than non-veterans over the past 40 years , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . Households headed by veterans have higher incomes and are less likely to be in poverty , on average , and this is especially the case for veterans in racial or ethnic minority groups and those with less education . In 2017 , the median annual income for veteran households was about $ 88,700 , compared with roughly $ 76,100 for non-veteran households , a difference of more than $ 12,000 . Both groups have experienced income growth since 1980 , when the median income was roughly $ 77,000 for veteran households and about $ 61,500 for non-veteran households . Still , the gap between the two groups has persisted over about four decades .
As a new 34-nation Pew Research Center survey highlights , democracy remains a popular idea among average citizens , but commitment to democratic ideals is not always strong . And many are unhappy with how democracy is working .
Immigration legislation is stalled in the House , but the public continues to broadly support a path to legalization for undocumented immigrants . At the same time , however , Americans are evenly divided over the growing number of undocumented immigrants who have been deported from the U.S. in recent years , with as many viewing this as a good thing as a bad thing ( 45 % each ) .
A growing share of the U.S. black population is foreign born . A steadily increasing proportion of the U.S. black population is foreign born , with a record 4 million black immigrants in 2015 . Immigrants now make up 9 % of the country 's black population , roughly triple the share in 1980 . While black immigrants come from many places around the world , about half are from the Caribbean , with Jamaica and Haiti ( 17 % each ) the most frequent countries of origin .
Indian Americans lean left . 65 % of Indian Americans were Democrats or leaned toward the Democrats , making them the Asian-American subgroup most likely to identify with the Democratic Party . An identical share of Indian Americans approved of Obama 's job performance in 2012 .
Most Americans anticipate widespread job automation in the coming decades . About eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 82 % ) say that by 2050 , robots and computers will definitely or probably do much of the work currently done by humans , according to a December 2018 Pew Research Center survey . A smaller share of employed adults ( 37 % ) say robots or computers will do the type of work they do by 2050 . In a May 2017 Pew Research Center survey , around four-in-ten U.S. adults said an automated future would make the economy more efficient , let people focus on the most fulfilling aspects of their jobs or allow them to focus less on work and more on what really matters to them in life . In each instance , a majority of the public said these positive outcomes are unlikely .
People who are dissatisfied with democracy in their country are less likely to feel that economic conditions in their country are good , that the financial situation of average people has improved over the past 20 years , and that key democratic norms are being respected , the study finds . Notably , however , dissatisfaction with democracy has little relationship to external assessments of how wealthy or democratic a given country actually is , based on measures from the World Bank , Freedom House , the Economist Intelligence Unit and the Electoral Integrity Project . People 's assessments of how the average person 's financial situation has changed over the past 20 years are related to dissatisfaction with democracy . In most of the countries surveyed , minorities believe that the average person 's financial situation has improved compared with 20 years ago . This pessimism is strongly related to how people feel about democratic performance . For instance , in Greece , where 7 % say the financial situation of average people has gotten better , 84 % say they are dissatisfied with how democracy is operating in their country . In contrast , in India , 65 % believe the financial situation has improved and just a third are dissatisfied with democracy .
There 's also a substantial age divide in the priority given to goals involving the U.S. military . Americans 65 and older are more than twice as likely as those under 30 to say that the U.S. maintaining its military advantage over all other countries is a top priority ( 64 % vs. 30 % ) .
A much larger share of Democrats than Republicans feel very coldly toward Russia – 54 % of Democrats compared with just 37 % of Republicans . Nearly identical shares in both parties say they feel somewhat coldly toward Russia ( 23 % of Republicans ; 22 % of Democrats ) .
Datapoints above the diagonal line indicate people who are now earning more than their parents ; points below the line indicate people earning less . As might be expected , people in certain high-earning occupations ( lawyers , scientists , financial analysts ) tended to grow up in wealthier families , while people in many low-paying jobs ( childcare workers , food prep , janitors and maids ) grew up in poorer households .
Some 35 % of Americans view the potential use of synthetic blood in healthy people as morally unacceptable , while about a fifth ( 22 % ) say it would be morally acceptable and 41 % are not sure . People with moral reservations about using synthetic blood in this way often described this idea as `` disrupting nature '' or `` playing God . '' One survey respondent stated :
The importance of reducing the budget deficit has lost ground among members of both parties , though Republicans continue to rate this as a higher priority than Democrats . Since 2013 , Republicans have become 14 percentage points less likely to say reducing the deficit should be a top priority , while there has been a 19-point decline among Democrats and a 17-point decline among independents . Republicans ( 70 % ) remain much more likely than independents ( 54 % ) or Democrats ( 48 % ) to say deficit reduction is a top priority , as they have been since 2012 .
Amid calls to `` defund the police , '' only a quarter of Americans said in June that they favor a reduction in spending on policing in their area . The largest share of Americans ( 42 % ) preferred spending on policing in their area to stay about the same , while 31 % said spending on police should be increased . Support for police spending cuts was higher – but still short of a majority – among adults under 30 , Black adults and those who identify as Democratic or lean to the Democratic Party .
A year ago , Japanese were divided over whether the use of nuclear power in Japan should be reduced ( 44 % ) or maintained at its current level ( 46 % ) . Only 8 % said reliance on nuclear power should be increased . Since then , the number who believe Japan should reduce its dependence on nuclear energy has surged to 70 % , while support for maintaining nuclear power use at current levels has fallen to fewer than half that number ( 25 % ) . Just 4 % of Japanese say the country should expand the use of nuclear power .
Unlike in 2014 , when 2.1 million more votes were cast in Republican than in Democratic House primaries , this year Democratic races drew more votes : 20.4 million versus 16.3 million . That was nearly twice as many votes as the 10.7 million cast in 2014 's Democratic House primaries . One reason : There have been a lot more contested primaries on the Democratic side this year , and contested races tend to attract more voters .
Over half of Nigerians still describe the economy as bad , but economic sentiment has rebounded since the 2016 oil recession . As of summer 2018 , 54 % of Nigerians described the economic situation as `` bad , '' down from a high of 71 % in 2016 . And 45 % rated their economic situation as `` good '' last year , an increase of 16 percentage points since 2016 ( 29 % ) .
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney holds a substantial lead among likely New Hampshire primary voters . If the election were today 37 % say they back Romney , nearly twice as many as the next highest candidate , Rudy Giuliani with 19 % .
But if you 're a teenager or young adult , you 're much less likely to have seen significant job market improvement compared with older adults . Our analysis of the latest employment data finds that last month , more than half ( 50.9 % ) of the nation 's nearly 8 million unemployed people are between the ages of 16 and 34 – even though that group makes up just over a third of the civilian labor force .
The public 's perceptions of economic news remain mixed , but are far less positive than earlier this year . Roughly half ( 53 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy ; 41 % say they are hearing mostly bad news while just 5 % say they are hearing mostly good news .
Only 2 % of U.S. adults say they have been officially diagnosed with COVID-19 by a health care provider , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . And 2 % say they have taken a blood test that showed they have COVID-19 antibodies , an indication that they previously had the coronavirus . But many more Americans ( 14 % ) say they are `` pretty sure '' they had COVID-19 , despite not getting an official diagnosis . And nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they 've taken their temperature to check if they might have the disease . Although few Americans have been diagnosed with COVID-19 themselves , many more say they know someone with a positive diagnosis . More than one-in-four U.S. adults ( 28 % ) say they personally know someone who has been diagnosed by a health care provider as having COVID-19 . A smaller share of Americans ( 20 % ) say they know someone who has been hospitalized or who has died as a result of having the coronavirus .
While the decline in support transcends ideological and demographic lines , the drop among one group – moderate Republicans – has been especially steep . Among all Republicans , Bush 's job approval rating has dropped 20 percentage points since December 2004 ( from 89 % to 69 % ) . This erosion of support has been most severe among Republicans describing themselves as moderate or liberal , where his rating has dropped 25 points from 81 % to 56 % . Conservative Republican support for Bush has also declined , but more gradually . Approval among this group was nearly unanimous ( 93 % ) following his re-election , and stands 15 points lower at 78 % today .
The idea that an independent Palestinian state can peacefully coexist with Israel has been the cornerstone of many Arab-Israeli peace initiatives in recent years . But while significant shares of Israeli Arabs and Jews are optimistic about the prospect of a two-state solution , the Arabs currently in the Palestinian territories are less so . Half of Israeli Arabs ( citizens and residents living within the boundaries of Israel , as defined in the 2008 census conducted by Israel 's Central Bureau of Statistics ) say it is possible for Israel and an independent Palestinian state to coexist peacefully together , according to 2015 Pew Research Center surveys . By contrast , less than one-third of Arabs living in the Palestinian territories say a two-state solution is possible ( 28 % ) . Jewish public opinion in Israel is divided on this question – 43 % say a two-state solution is possible , while 45 % disagree .
Post-election spike in economic optimism – among Republicans . Democrats are more likely than Republicans to view the current state of the economy positively , but Republicans are far more optimistic about the economy 's course over the next year . Fully 75 % of Republicans expect the economy to improve over the next year , up from just 29 % who said this in June . By contrast , the share of Democrats who expect the economy to get better over the coming year has fallen from 35 % to 15 % .
In the news this week , the public remained focused on the Iraq war while the national news media divided their time fairly evenly among a host of domestic and international issues . Three-in-ten Americans followed events in Iraq very closely last week , and fully a third listed Iraq as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . The media devoted 7 % of overall coverage for the week to events on the ground in Iraq . The most heavily covered news story of the week was the debate in Washington over a new immigration policy . Fully 10 % of the newshole was devoted to this story as George Bush and congressional leaders attempted to keep the controversial reform legislation alive . The public paid fairly close attention to the immigration debate : 22 % followed the story very closely and 17 % said this was the story they followed more closely than any other . Public interest in the 2008 presidential campaign remained steady last week . Despite the absence of major campaign events or debates , 17 % of the public followed campaign news very closely and 10 % listed this as their top story . The media devoted 7 % of its overall coverage to the campaign .
In late October , just prior to the election , only 11 % of Republicans and Republican leaners said they were satisfied with how things were going , while 52 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners said they were satisfied . Today , these views are nearly the reverse : 49 % of Republicans now say they are satisfied , while just 11 % of Democrats agree . As has been noted previously , it is typical for partisans ' views of national satisfaction to shift following a change in party control of the White House , but the size of the shift among both Republicans and Democrats is more pronounced than it was in either 2001 , shortly after the election of George W. Bush and 2009 , following Obama 's election .
Since the 1990s , there also has been an increase in the percentage of Americans saying that homosexuality should be accepted by society . In March 2011 , 58 % said that homosexuality should be accepted by society , while a third ( 33 % ) said it should be discouraged .
By a wide margin ( 58 % to 36 % ) , Americans approve of the U.S. missile strikes against Syria in response to reports of the use of chemical weapons by Bashar al-Assad 's government . By a comparable margin ( 61 % to 32 % ) , the public says that Donald Trump does not have a clear plan for dealing with the situation in Syria .
More than 11 million U.S. parents – or 18 % – were not working outside the home in 2016 , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . The stay-at-home share of U.S. parents was almost identical to what it was in 1989 , but there has been a modest increase among fathers . The share of dads at home rose from 4 % to 7 % , while the share of moms staying at home remained largely unchanged – 27 % in 2016 versus 28 % about a quarter-century earlier . As a result , 17 % of all stay-at-home parents in 2016 were fathers , up from 10 % in 1989 , the first year for which reliable data on fathers are available . The share of stay-at-home parents in the United States has fluctuated in recent decades . Around 2000 , the share of stay-at-home moms hit a low of 23 % ; the overall share of stay-at-home parents dipped to 15 % . But in the immediate wake of the Great Recession , rates of stay-at-home parenting rose to 20 % in 2010 , driven in part by parents who were at home because they were unable to find work . This was particularly true of stay-at-home fathers , one-third of whom reported they were home for this reason in 2010 .
As part of a survey to understand customer satisfaction among search engine users , comScore asked participants which search attributes are most important to them and how the search engines they use most often rated on each of these attributes . The survey found that while users ' overall satisfaction levels with search engines are relatively high , there are significant gaps between respondents ' most important attributes and the perceived performance of search engines in these areas . For example , 91 % of respondents rated `` Returns results that match your needs '' as either important or very important , but only 66 % reported that this statement describes their favorite engines . The biggest gap between attribute importance and the extent to which the search engines are perceived to deliver is `` Knowing that personal information will not be shared without permission . '' Fully 85 % of users rate this as an important attribute , but only 55 % believe search engines deliver .
According to the Pew Research survey , nearly four-in-ten adults who are working past the median retirement age of 62 say they have delayed their retirement because of the recession . Among workers ages 50 to 61 , fully 63 % say they might have to push back their expected retirement date because of current economic conditions .
About a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) says they followed reports about the condition of the economy more closely than other top stories last week , while 21 % followed news about the swine flu most closely . According to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted May 21 - 24 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed the debate about how to defend the nation from terror most closely .
Europeans overwhelmingly give the U.N. favorable reviews . More than seven-in-ten in France ( 74 % ) and Poland ( 72 % ) offer a favorable opinion , as do majorities in Britain ( 67 % ) , Germany ( 65 % ) , Spain ( 61 % ) and Russia ( 56 % ) . The organization is also widely popular in the two African countries surveyed , Kenya ( 76 % favorable ) and Nigeria ( 71 % ) , and to a lesser extent in two of the three Latin American nations included , Mexico ( 58 % ) and Brazil ( 52 % ) . In Argentina , however , nearly half ( 45 % ) offer no opinion .
A majority of Americans ( 54 % ) say that gun ownership in this country does more to protect people from becoming victims of crime , while 40 % say it does more to put people 's safety at risk . These findings are largely unchanged from December , when a 57 % majority said owning guns does more to protect people from crime .
Just prior to the 2016 election , the public had fairly low expectations for Donald Trump 's presidency . Majorities of Americans said that if Trump was elected , he would not be likely to improve the way government works , set a high moral standard for the presidency or achieve other goals .
Two of the Democratic Party 's best-known candidates , Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders , are in their 70s , yet only 3 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say this is the best age range for a president . And just 6 % say it would be ideal for a president to be in their 30s .
English use is on the rise among young Hispanics . Still , about six-in-ten say they use Spanish , according to Pew Research Center 's 2016 National Survey of Latinos , which asked Hispanics to rate their own ability to speak and read Spanish and to speak and read English . Similar shares of young Hispanic adults are either English dominant ( 41 % ) or bilingual ( 40 % ) , while 19 % are Spanish dominant . By contrast , among Hispanics ages 36 and older , a lower share is English dominant ( 24 % ) , with higher shares rating themselves bilingual ( 32 % ) and Spanish dominant ( 44 % ) . Many young Hispanic adults heard Spanish spoken at home while they were growing up , and today they speak Spanish to their children . About 86 % of young Hispanic adults said Spanish was spoken in their home when they were growing up , similar to the share of older Hispanics who said the same ( 93 % ) , according to the 2015 survey . Among young Hispanic adults who are parents , 86 % say they speak Spanish to their children , with a similar share of older Hispanic parents ( 85 % ) saying the same .
Although the public is somewhat ambivalent on whether colleges and universities are responsible for preparing the American workforce , a majority ( 67 % ) say a four-year degree prepares someone at least somewhat well for a well-paying job in today 's economy . Democrats and Democratic leaners were more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners to say this ( 73 % vs. 62 % ) in the 2016 survey , though Republican views on how colleges and universities affect the country have changed dramatically over the past two years .
Overall , the number of newly arrived immigrants peaked in the early 2000s : Some 8 million residents of other countries came to the U.S. between 2000 and 2005 . The number of recent arrivals declined after that , to about 6 million for the years 2008 to 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of federal government data .
As U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping prepare to meet at the G20 summit in Argentina this weekend , Americans have less positive views of China than in 2017 , with a growing share concerned about China 's economic strength instead of its military capabilities . Around four-in-ten Americans ( 38 % ) have a favorable opinion of China , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted earlier this year . That 's down slightly from 44 % in 2017 . And nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) say they are more concerned about China 's economic strength than its military capabilities , a 6-percentage-point increase from 2017 , when 52 % pointed to China 's economic power as the bigger concern .
Overall , 40 % say that the job situation is the national economic issue that worries them most , while somewhat fewer cite the budget deficit ( 24 % ) or rising prices ( 22 % ) ; just 10 % say the condition of the financial and housing markets is their top economic worry . The percentage citing the job situation as their top economic worry has increased eight points since March , when concern over rising prices rivaled the job situation as the public 's top economic worry . For most of the past three years , the job situation has been the public 's top economic worry .
Here are some of the key takeaways from the survey conducted in seven European Union member countries – France , Germany , Greece , Italy , Poland , Spain and the United Kingdom : Disillusion with the EU seems to be ending . Support for the European Union is rebounding just in time for the May 22 - 25 European Parliament elections . After a dramatic decline in the wake of the euro crisis , EU favorability is now on the rise in France , the United Kingdom and Germany . And faith in one of the EU 's founding principles – that European economic integration is good for their own country – is up in the UK , Poland and Germany . Median belief that European economic integration strengthens a person 's national economy is up as well , driven by a 15-point increase in the UK and a 12-point rise in Poland . However , EU support has yet to return to pre-crisis levels . Italians are increasingly critical of the institution .
Europeans are n't sure that establishment political institutions can help address these challenges . In several countries , traditional political parties are losing support while anti-establishment parties are gaining strength . Often the populist challengers are coming from the ideological right , such as the National Front in France or the Party for Freedom in the Netherlands , but left-of-center populist parties have also emerged in Spain ( Podemos ) and Greece ( Syriza ) . And the crisis of confidence is n't just about political parties : Many have also lost faith in the European Union . In a number of member states , ratings for the EU are significantly lower than they were before the onset of financial crisis .
Even as many YouTube users say the site plays an important role in helping them navigate various aspects of their lives , it can also be a space where they encounter troubling or problematic content . Around two-thirds of users ( 64 % ) say they at least sometimes encounter videos that seem obviously false or untrue while using the site . A similar share ( 60 % ) say they at least sometimes encounter videos that show people engaging in dangerous or troubling behavior . A minority of users also say they see videos that are abusive or demeaning toward others – and 11 % say they see this type of content frequently .
In some cases , partisan shifts in opinion were dramatic . Amid Trump 's persistent criticisms of CNN and other media outlets as `` fake news , '' for example , partisan differences over the role of the press as a `` watchdog '' were wider than in more than three decades of Pew Research Center surveys . In a March survey , Democrats were roughly twice as likely as Republicans to say criticism from news organizations keeps political leaders from doing things that should n't be done ( 89 % versus 42 % ) . When the Center last asked this question in January and February 2016 , about three-quarters of both Democrats ( 74 % ) and Republicans ( 77 % ) said this .
Even with several major news organizations deciding to reduce or ban its use , the term `` illegal immigrant '' is still the phrase newspapers most often use to describe foreigners living in the United States without proper documentation . But over time , there have been some shifts in the language applied to those at the heart of the immigration debate , as words like `` undocumented '' or `` unauthorized '' have begun showing up more frequently . During all four time periods , the term used most frequently in newspapers was `` illegal immigrant , '' although there was some ebb and flow , according to Pew Research 's LexisNexis search of 19 related terms in almost 9,000 articles . This year , we found the phrase `` illegal immigrant '' accounted for 49 % of the terms examined . It accounted for 30 % of the terms in 2007 , around the time Congress tried and failed to pass immigration reform . And it represented 62 % of terms in 2002 when Congress passed legislation ordering Immigration and Naturalization Service to link their databases together .
About three-in-ten online adults ( 31 % ) posted a video to a website in 2013 , up from 14 % in 2009 , according to a 2013 Pew Research Center report . Among those who posted a video in 2013 , 35 % said they did so in hopes that it would be widely viewed or `` go viral . '' Overall , 72 % of online adults use video-sharing sites like YouTube or Vimeo – a figure that more than doubled between 2006 and 2013 .
About three-quarters of white evangelical Protestants ( 77 % ) think abortion should be illegal in all or most cases . By contrast , 83 % of religiously unaffiliated Americans say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , as do nearly two-thirds of black Protestants ( 64 % ) , six-in-ten white mainline Protestants ( 60 % ) and a slim majority of Catholics ( 56 % ) .
Among Greek-language tweets studied , 40 % of the conversation included positive expressions about the EU proposals on the referendum calling for a financial bailout that would likely include new austerity measures , while 33 % was negative and 27 % was neutral . The stakes are high and yet also still unclear – a `` no '' vote could lead to a possible exit from the eurozone or a fresh start for the negotiations .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy . That 's up six points from early December . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they are hearing mostly bad news , not much different from the 33 % that said this in early December . Just 5 % say they are hearing mostly good news about the economy , about the same as the 7 % that said the same last month .
The number of refugees living in a foreign country who are either waiting to return or be resettled peaked in the early 1990s at about 18 million . During the 1990s peak , most of the world 's refugees were leaving Afghanistan , Iraq and other countries in sub-Saharan Africa . In 2012 , Afghanistan , Somalia , Iraq and Syria were top countries of origin for refugees . But despite the ongoing conflicts in these countries , the number of refugees around the world is considerably less than it was two decades ago , numbering between 10 million and 12 million in recent years .
With the presidential contest shifting toward the fight between Mitt Romney and Barack Obama , news about the 2012 campaign topped coverage last week , making up 22 % of the newshole . Still , as prosecutors launched the legal case against Zimmerman , coverage of developments in the Trayvon Martin case was up sharply from one week earlier . Last week , the Trayvon Martin story accounted for 17 % of coverage , up from 7 % one week earlier , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
Americans have grown slightly more positive about the WHO 's handling of the pandemic . Only 53 % of Americans said this summer that the organization had handled the outbreak well , but that represented an increase since the spring , when only 46 % said this .
Almost seven-in-ten Americans ( 68 % ) feel worn out by the amount of news there is these days . While members of both parties say this , Republicans are feeling it more : Roughly three-quarters ( 77 % ) of Republicans and GOP-leaning independents feel worn out over how much news there is , compared with 61 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
The cost of not going to college has risen . Millennials with just a high school diploma are faring worse today than their counterparts in earlier generations by almost every economic measure examined .
Immigrants in the U.S. as a whole have lower levels of education than the U.S.-born population . In 2018 , immigrants were over three times as likely as the U.S. born to have not completed high school ( 27 % vs. 8 % ) . However , immigrants were just as likely as the U.S. born to have a bachelor 's degree or more ( 32 % and 33 % , respectively ) . Educational attainment varies among the nation 's immigrant groups , particularly across immigrants from different regions of the world . Immigrants from Mexico and Central America are less likely to be high school graduates than the U.S. born ( 54 % and 47 % , respectively , do not have a high school diploma , vs. 8 % of U.S. born ) . On the other hand , immigrants from every region except Mexico , the Caribbean and Central America were as likely as or more likely than U.S.-born residents to have a bachelor 's or advanced degree .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds 44 % of Americans have a favorable opinion of China , up from 37 % a year ago . The growth in positive ratings for China may be due in part to declining concerns about economic threats from China . The share of the public that sees the amount of U.S. debt held by Beijing , the loss of jobs to China and the trade deficit with China as very serious problems has dropped significantly in recent years . For example , 61 % said the trade deficit was a very serious problem in 2012 , compared with 44 % today . Concerns about Chinese cyberattacks have , on the other hand , risen to 55 % from 50 % five years ago .
Black Americans prefer getting their news from TV . Six-in-ten say this is their preferred pathway to news ; far fewer prefer online ( 25 % ) , radio ( 9 % ) or print ( 5 % ) . Among Hispanic and white Americans , fewer than half prefer television ( though it is still the most common choice ) .
Those with favorable views of right-wing populist parties in Europe generally are more likely to express net approval of Trump 's six signature foreign policies . In Sweden and Hungary , for example , those who support Sweden Democrats and Fidesz are at least 24 percentage points more likely than those who do not to express net approval of Trump 's policies . Large gaps also exist in Spain , the UK , the Czech Republic and the Netherlands .
The economy was the public 's top story last week , according to the latest News Interest Index survey , conducted Dec. 1 - 4 among 1,008 adults by Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say they followed news about the economy more closely than any other story . Somewhat fewer ( 23 % ) cited the presidential campaign as their top story . News about the presidential election – much of it focused on the final days of Herman Cain 's bid for the Republican nomination – topped news coverage , accounting for 23 % of the newshole . News about the economy made up 17 % , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
It 's been nearly a year since former Egyptian president and Muslim Brotherhood leader , Mohamed Morsi , was removed from power by the country 's military , following huge demonstrations in Cairo and throughout the nation . On May 26 - 27 , presidential elections will be held in Egypt , whose fairness has already been questioned and which will almost certainly result in victory for Abdel Fattah El-Sisi , the former general who led the military takeover . As a new Pew Research Center survey highlights , most Egyptians still favor Morsi 's ouster , but the public mood is grim , and Sisi 's support is limited . A slim majority ( 54 % ) of Egyptians have a positive opinion of Sisi , and the same percentage say they favor last July 's military takeover that dislodged President Mohamed Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood from power . These slender majorities may be lower than some expected , given that media reports from Egypt over the last year have often emphasized Sisi 's popularity and broad support for the takeover .
Religion-related terrorism spiked in 2014 , with 82 countries experiencing this kind of danger , up from 73 countries in 2013 and 2012 . These activities resulted in injury or death in 60 countries ( up from 51 in 2013 ) , reaching an eight-year high in lethality . The Middle East-North Africa region continued to have the highest share of countries with religion-related terrorism ( 90 % ) among the report 's five regions , although the Asia-Pacific region saw the biggest increase in the share of countries that experienced religion-related terrorism , rising from 36 % in 2013 to 44 % in 2014 .
Overall , about one-in three Americans ( 29 % ) currently call Russia `` an adversary '' and an additional 44 % consider it a `` serious problem , but not an adversary '' ; just 24 % say it is `` not a problem . '' About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) Democrats and Democratic leaners now consider Russia an adversary , while about as many ( 42 % ) call it a serious problem , and just 17 % say it is not a problem . By contrast , only 20 % of Republicans and Republican leaners call Russia an adversary , while 45 % say it is a serious problem , but not an adversary . Nearly a third of Republicans ( 32 % ) say that Russia is not a problem .
When it comes to trusting the UK government , people in Britain are evenly divided . Roughly half say that they trust the national government a lot or somewhat , and virtually the same number say they trust the government not much or not at all . Only 14 % of the British public trusts the government a lot , while two-in-ten say they do not trust the government at all .
As with presidential approval , there have long been wide partisan gaps in confidence in the U.S. president on the world stage . In fact , in 12 of 14 surveys conducted since 2005 , no more than around a third of adults in the opposing party have expressed confidence in the president to do the right thing regarding world affairs ( the exceptions are 2005 under George W. Bush and 2009 under Obama ) . Yet the partisan gap in views of Trump is wider than for either Bush or Obama over this timeframe : Currently , only 16 % of Democrats have confidence in Trump in world affairs , compared with 88 % of Republicans .
As of January 2016 , the top contributors to peacekeeping forces are Ethiopia ( 8,326 ) , Bangladesh ( 8,274 ) , India ( 7,799 ) and Pakistan ( 7,625 ) – making up 30 % of the total – followed by other developing and emerging nations , mostly in Africa and Asia . By contrast , European nations supply just 6 % of total personnel contributions . ( Brahimi criticized this dynamic as one in which the `` rich contribute money and the poor contribute blood . '' )
Although they are relatively rare , these mentions of abortion add up over time : Christian churches that shared their sermons online posted an average of nine sermons each during the eight-week study period – and roughly one-in-five of those congregations ( 19 % ) heard at least one sermon that mentioned abortion . To arrive at these conclusions , the Center analyzed nearly 50,000 sermons shared online or livestreamed by more than 6,000 U.S. churches and delivered between April 7 and June 1 , 2019 – a period that included Easter . The findings suggest that roughly one-in-five congregations in the evangelical Protestant , historically black Protestant and Catholic traditions heard at least one message that touched on abortion during the study period . Meanwhile , only one-in-ten mainline Protestant congregations heard about abortion during the same period .
People who are dissatisfied with democracy in their country are less likely to feel that economic conditions in their country are good , that the financial situation of average people has improved over the past 20 years , and that key democratic norms are being respected , the study finds . Notably , however , dissatisfaction with democracy has little relationship to external assessments of how wealthy or democratic a given country actually is , based on measures from the World Bank , Freedom House , the Economist Intelligence Unit and the Electoral Integrity Project . Dissatisfaction with democracy is not related to the overall wealth of a country , but it is strongly related to pessimistic views of the current economic situation . This is the case whether wealth is measured as gross domestic product or as GDP per capita . For example , 9 % of Brazilians think their economic situation is good , and 83 % are dissatisfied with the way democracy is working in their country . Swedes , on the other hand , have a much rosier outlook on both their economy and democracy : 81 % think their country 's economic situation is good , and only about a third ( 30 % ) say they are dissatisfied with democracy . People 's assessments of how the average person 's financial situation has changed over the past 20 years are related to dissatisfaction with democracy . In most of the countries surveyed , minorities believe that the average person 's financial situation has improved compared with 20 years ago . This pessimism is strongly related to how people feel about democratic performance . For instance , in Greece , where 7 % say the financial situation of average people has gotten better , 84 % say they are dissatisfied with how democracy is operating in their country . In contrast , in India , 65 % believe the financial situation has improved and just a third are dissatisfied with democracy .
For example , half of all frequently angry and frustrated officers say that most people respect the police , a view shared by roughly eight-in-ten officers ( 78 % ) who are not frequently angry or frustrated . Officers who say they frequently feel frustrated by their job , but not angry , fall squarely in the middle . In addition , frequently angry and frustrated officers are roughly twice as likely as those who are not frequently angry or frustrated to agree that police have reason to be distrustful of most citizens ( 46 % vs. 21 % ) . About eight-in-ten angry and frustrated officers ( 77 % ) agree that they have become more callous toward people since taking the job . This compares with 42 % of officers who say they are not frequently angry or frustrated .
Americans are supportive of the space program and space exploration . In a 2011 Pew Research survey , 58 % of Americans said it is essential that the U.S. be a world leader in space exploration .
Mitt Romney 's statement that he is focused solely on the problems of middle class Americans , not the poor , may not sit well with lower-income voters within his own party . Roughly a quarter of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters have annual family incomes under $ 30,000 , and most of them say that the government does not do enough for poor people in this country .
Jordanians ( 79 % unfavorable ) and Egyptians ( 76 % ) give Iran especially poor marks . Moreover , ratings for Iran have declined precipitously since 2006 , when 59 % of Egyptians and 49 % of Jordanians expressed a positive view .
This chart shows the Mexican-born population of the United States as measured by decennial censuses and the CPS for 1850–2004 and what proportion this group is of the U.S. foreign-born population .
Women 's expressed desire for the top spot varied markedly by age and race , though among all subgroups women were less likely than men to say so . Only 29 % of white women said they 'd like to be a boss or top manager someday , as opposed to 53 % of black women and 51 % of Hispanic women . And 61 % of Millennial women ( ages 18 to 32 ) said they wanted to be a boss someday , compared with 41 % of Gen-X women ( ages 33 to 48 ) and 21 % of Baby Boomer women ( ages 49 to 67 ) .
In seven of 11 developed nations we surveyed this spring – from the U.S. and Canada to Germany and South Korea – women are more likely to consider climate change a serious problem , be concerned it will harm them personally and say that major lifestyle changes are needed to solve the problem . For example , when asked how serious a problem climate change is , women in the U.S. are significantly more likely than American men ( by a margin of 17 percentage points ) to say it 's a somewhat or very serious problem . Canadian and Australian women 's concern also outweighs that of men in their respective countries , by 13 points and 12 points , respectively . The gender disparity also occurs in views of personal harm caused by climate change . American women again differ the most from their male counterparts – 69 % of women are concerned it will harm them personally , while fewer than half of men ( 48 % ) express this view . Women are more concerned than men in many of the other countries surveyed , including double-digit gender imbalances in Germany ( +15 points ) and Canada ( +14 ) . On trusting technology alone to solve climate change versus changing personal habits , American , Canadian , British and Australian women in particular are more likely than men to think that people will have to make major lifestyle changes to reduce climate change 's effects . Double-digit differences on this question also appear in Spain , South Korea and Germany .
Indians overwhelmingly see their country gaining global prominence . Nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) believe India plays a more important role in the world today than it did 10 years ago . By comparison , only about a fifth of Americans and Europeans ( a median across 10 EU member countries ) view their country as rising in importance on the global stage .
Americans ' perceptions of China 's military strength relative to other major military powers have also fallen . Just 6 % of Americans now view China as the world 's top military power – down from 12 % in 2016 – though three-in-ten still see China as the leading economic power . And only 4 % of Americans think a situation in which China is the world 's leading power would be better for the world than one in which the U.S. is dominant .
About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed news about the deal more closely than any other major story . Another 17 % say they most closely followed news about the economy in general , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Dec. 9 - 12 among 1,011 adults . News about the economy – and efforts to spark greater growth – dominated news coverage as well . A third ( 33 % ) of news coverage last week focused specifically on the agreement reached between the White House and GOP leaders , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . More general reporting on the economy accounted for another 7 % of the newshole . People paid attention to both storylines : 69 % say they followed news about the economy either very ( 39 % ) or fairly closely ( 30 % ) , while 66 % say they followed news about the tax deal either very ( 37 % ) or fairly closely ( 29 % ) .
The survey also found that many men say men face at least some pressure to engage in activities that are sometimes associated with `` traditional masculinity . '' More than eight-in-ten say men face pressure to be emotionally strong , with 41 % saying men face a lot of pressure in this area . About six-in-ten ( 57 % ) say men face pressure to be willing to throw a punch if provoked , 45 % say men face pressure to join in when other men talk about women in a sexual way , and 40 % say men face pressure to have many sexual partners .
In the follow-up questions on those October surveys , we found that Twitter users are nearly equally divided between those who check the site on a daily basis ( or multiple times per day ) and those who check the site infrequently or never . Just over one-third of Twitter users ( 36 % ) check for material posted by others on a daily basis or multiple times per day—this is roughly comparable to the two in five ( 41 % ) who say they check the site less than every few weeks , or never do so at all . The remaining one-quarter of users say they check the site for updates a few days each week or every few weeks .
Despite the opportunity , Circa – a venture-funded news organization that did not cultivate an advertising or subscription base – was not able to garner the revenue to keep itself afloat . While venture capital interest in media companies has attracted headlines lately , their investments in journalism amount to a small fraction of total funding for the U.S. news industry .
As of the end of April , nonfarm employers reported more than 6 million job openings , according to seasonally adjusted data from the government 's Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey ( known as JOLTS ) . Although there are still more people without jobs than there are job openings – about 6.9 million people reported being unemployed in May – the monthly estimate of open positions has been above 5.5 million for all but one month since the start of 2016 , a sign of the U.S. economy 's relative health . In July 2009 , just past the trough of the Great Recession , employers reported fewer than 2.2 million job openings , the lowest total since the Bureau of Labor Statistics began collecting JOLTS data in 2000 . Another way of looking at the vacancies data is the job openings rate , which is calculated by dividing the total number of openings by the sum of total employment and openings . ( The higher the rate , the greater the nation 's unmet demand for labor . ) The openings rate was a robust 4 % in April , matching the high points reached in July 2015 and July 2016 . Like the total number of job openings , the openings rate bottomed out in July 2009 , at 1.7 % . The JOLTS program does n't produce state-level data , but it does indicate that the South had the most job openings in April of any region – nearly 2.2 million – though the openings rate there ( 3.9 % ) was slightly below that of the nation as a whole . The Midwest had the nation 's highest regional openings rate ( 4.4 % ) , followed by the Northeast ( 4.1 % ) ; the rate in the West lagged behind at 3.6 % .
Especially in the United States , political leaning plays a role in views of Russia . Roughly six-in-ten Democrats ( 61 % ) view Russia as a major risk to national security , whereas only 36 % of Republicans feel the same .
Like the U.S. population as a whole , Latinos are feeling the sting of the economic downturn . Almost one-in-ten ( 9 % ) Latino homeowners say they missed a mortgage payment or were unable to make a full payment and 3 % say they received a foreclosure notice in the past year , according to a new national survey of 1,540 Latino adults conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center . Moreover , more than six-in-ten ( 62 % ) Latino homeowners say there have been foreclosures in their neighborhood over the past year , and 36 % say they are worried that their own home may go into foreclosure . This figure rises to 53 % among foreign-born Latino homeowners .
Two years into his term as prime minister , Indians ' fervor for Narendra Modi continues and optimism about India 's direction and economy is on the rise . Indians are extremely happy with their country and economy . Eight-in-ten say that the economic situation in India is good , reflecting the nation 's ranking as the fastest growing major economy in the world . A large majority ( 65 % ) believe India is headed in the right direction , and roughly seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) believe that today 's children will be better off financially than their parents .
In the ongoing dispute between Israel and the Palestinians , a 53 % majority sympathizes more with Israel , while far fewer ( 11 % ) sympathize more with the Palestinians ; 16 % volunteer that they sympathize with neither side . In polling by Pew Research and the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations dating back to 1978 , sympathy toward Israel has never been higher . A decade ago , four-in-ten ( 40 % ) sympathized more with Israel and 13 % sympathized more with the Palestinians . By the summer of 2006 , sympathy with Israel had risen to 48 % and has remained at or around 50 % since that . Republicans continue to register very high measures of sympathy for Israel ( 68 % ) , while 7 % sympathize more with the Palestinians and 9 % volunteer `` neither . '' Among Democrats , 46 % sympathize more with Israel , 15 % say they sympathize more with the Palestinians , and 15 % say neither . The opinion gap is especially large between the two party 's ideological wings : 75 % of conservative Republicans sympathize more with Israel , compared with 41 % of liberal Democrats .
Among Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters , somewhat more say they want the Democratic Party to move in a more moderate ( 53 % ) than more liberal ( 40 % ) direction . These views are about the same as they were following the 2014 midterm elections . In November 2016 , after Trump 's presidential election victory , a somewhat greater share of Democrats ( 49 % ) wanted the party to head in a more liberal direction .
Compared with last year , the percentage who consider the Taliban a very serious threat to Pakistan has increased significantly – 49 % now hold this view , up from 37 % . This level of concern approaches the fears registered in a 2009 Pew Research poll . Then , with the Taliban in control of the Swat Valley , which is within 100 miles of the capital Islamabad , 57 % rated the Taliban a very serious threat . The level of concern about the Taliban matches the level of worry about neighboring India , with whom Pakistan has fought several major wars since the two countries emerged as independent nations more than six decades ago . Roughly half ( 52 % ) consider India a very serious threat .
Indonesia is another example of a country where humanitarian efforts led to a more positive image for the U.S. ; and importantly , it is an example of improvement in a predominantly Muslim nation where opinions of the U.S. had soured dramatically after the onset of the Iraq war . Prior to Iraq , the U.S. was generally popular in Indonesia , but in a 2003 poll taken after American forces dislodged Saddam Hussein from power , only 15 % of Indonesians expressed a favorable opinion of the U.S . The Pew Global Attitudes Project next surveyed Indonesia in spring 2005 , only months after the devastating December 2004 tsunami that struck the Banda Aceh region and other parts of the country . Roughly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) said that post-tsunami aid from the U.S. had improved their impression of America , and positive views of the U.S. more than doubled , rising from 15 % in 2003 to 38 % in the 2005 poll . Meanwhile , the percentage saying the U.S. takes into account the interests of countries like Indonesia jumped from 25 % in 2003 to 59 % in 2005 .
A third of the public ( 33 % ) is very closely following the investigation into the downing of the airplane in Ukraine . Just as many ( 33 % ) are paying close attention to news about children from Central America crossing the U.S.-Mexico border , and 32 % are following the fighting between Israel and Hamas very closely . Fewer Americans tracked news about the recent court rulings on the Affordable Care Act ( 25 % ) and the 2014 congressional midterms ( 14 % ) .
As the U.S. Supreme Court weighs the future of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program ( or DACA ) , 74 % of Americans favor a law that would provide permanent legal status to immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children , while 24 % are opposed . As with other immigration issues , some of the sharpest differences in these views are between Democrats and Republicans . While 91 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents favor granting legal status to immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children , about half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 54 % ) say the same . Support also varies by race and ethnicity . About nine-in-ten Hispanics ( 88 % ) say they favor granting legal status to immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children , with similar shares of U.S.-born and immigrant Hispanics saying so . Smaller majorities of black ( 82 % ) , Asian American ( 72 % ) and white ( 69 % ) adults say the same .
More than three-quarters ( 77 % ) of newsroom employees – those who work as reporters , editors , photographers and videographers in the newspaper , broadcasting and internet publishing industries – are non-Hispanic whites , according to the analysis of 2012 - 2016 American Community Survey data . That is true of 65 % of U.S. workers in all occupations and industries combined . Newsroom employees are also more likely than workers overall to be male . About six-in-ten newsroom employees ( 61 % ) are men , compared with 53 % of all workers . When combining race/ethnicity and gender , almost half ( 48 % ) of newsroom employees are non-Hispanic white men compared with about a third ( 34 % ) of workers overall .
Democrats Favored . In March , Democrats held a wide lead as the party that better represents people 's views on abortion : 49 % of voters said the Democratic Party better reflected their views on abortion compared with 33 % who said the Republican Party . And in July , Barack Obama held a comparable advantage over Mitt Romney as the candidate best able to reflect people 's views on social issues like abortion and gay rights : 50 % said Obama could do the best job of reflecting people 's views on these issues ; just 36 % said Romney could do best .
When asked whether they used the internet to relax and help get their minds off of the recent economic or financial problems , three-quarters ( 74 % ) of online economic users said they had done so . Listening to music and watching online videos are among the most common of the activities we evaluated ; roughly half of all online economic users have done each of these activities to relax . Approximately one-third of online economic users have played online games or chatted with friends ( on a social networking site , listserv or other online group ) , while an additional 22 % have taken their minds off of their economic or financial circumstances by creating or posting content online .
Across five large European economies , Japan , and the United States , public assessment of national economic conditions is now more positive than it was in 2007 , immediately before the global financial crisis . Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) believe the economic situation in the U.S. is good . The U.S. economy has experienced roughly 80 months of job growth and the unemployment rate was only 4.9 % in 2016 . In the spring of 2009 , when the jobless rate was 9.3 % , just 17 % thought economic conditions were good . In 2007 , before the economic downturn , 50 % said conditions were favorable .
Overall , the public holds more positive than negative views about the impact of Trump 's economic policies . While 44 % say that the president 's economic policies have made economic conditions better , 29 % say they have made the economy worse ; 26 % say Trump 's policies have not had much of an effect . However , optimism that conditions would improve was relatively high eight years ago . Today , public outlook for the economy a year from now is mixed : Currently , 29 % of Americans say conditions will be better , 26 % worse , while 45 % say they will be about the same as now . In February 2012 , 44 % expected economic conditions to improve ; just 10 % said they would get worse , while 42 % said they would be about the same as they were then .
As described in a January 2006 Pew report,2 Republicans are far more likely than either Democrats or independents to see economic conditions as good or excellent ; 56 % of Republicans take that view compared with only 23 % of Democrats and 28 % of independents . These partisan differences in judgments about the economy are apparent across all income categories – and are not simply a matter of Republicans being wealthier on average than other citizens . But , again , party affiliation makes a bigger difference if you feel well-off : Republicans who rate their own personal financial situation as excellent or good are even more likely than Democrats and independents to give a similar rating to the national economy .
In recent years , impressions of Germany 's leader have differed by Americans ' partisan identification . Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party are now much more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say they have confidence in Merkel ( 76 % vs. 50 % ) . Earlier in Merkel 's tenure , Democrats and Republicans barely differed in their views .
Currently , 51 % of voters in this age group affiliate with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic compared with 39 % who describe themselves as Republicans or lean toward the GOP . Thus voters in Gen X and the latter part of the Baby Boom — the most Republican age cohort four years ago — now are about as Democratic as are older age groups , the early Baby Boomers and the so-called Silent Generation .
Interestingly , those who are concerned about the issue of GM foods and those who are nutrition focused are largely different groups of Americans : Just 6 % of adults both care a great deal about GM food issues and say their own eating style is focused on being healthy and nutritious . But their eating habits , their views about organic foods , their views about GM foods and the importance of foods in health are often at odds with those of other Americans .
Ten of the 12 companies reported revenue growth through the third quarter of 2014 ( January – September ) compared with the same period a year earlier ( 21st Century Fox and Meredith operate on a fiscal year that ends June 30 , therefore the revenues reported here for those two companies are for July 1 through September 30 , 2014 ) . Media General sits at the top , with $ 458 million in revenue for the nine months ending in September 30 , 2014 , an 187 % growth from the previous year . During this accounting period , Media General owned 32 local TV stations in 29 markets , including 13 that it acquired in a merger with Young Broadcasting in November 2013 . In March 2014 , Media General announced plans to expand further by purchasing LIN Media . The merger was completed in December 2014 , bringing the Media General total to 71 stations in 48 markets . Gannett ranks second in revenue growth for this time period with a 97 % increase across its 46 stations . Only CBS and 21st Century Fox , which own 30 and 28 stations respectively saw their broadcast revenue flatten compared to the same period in the previous year . CBS said the previous year 's revenue had been boosted by its Super Bowl broadcast but it also reported `` softness in the advertising marketplace . '' 21st Century Fox attributed its flat revenue to lower entertainment prime time ratings .
Finally , this survey documents a pronounced shift in how Americans engage with one of the oldest elements of the modern economy : physical currency . Today nearly one-quarter ( 24 % ) of Americans indicate that none of the purchases they make in a typical week involve cash . And an even larger share – 39 % – indicates that they do n't really worry about having cash on hand , since there are so many other ways of paying for things these days . Nonwhites , low-income Americans and those 50 and older are especially likely to rely on cash as a payment method . Among the other findings of this national survey of 4,787 U.S. adults conducted from Nov. 24 to Dec. 21 , 2015 :
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted January 5 - 9 among 1,503 adults finds that by two-to-one ( 60 % to 27 % ) Americans see China 's economic strength as a greater threat than its military strength . And as Obama goes into talks with the Chinese president , a 53 % majority say it is very important for the U.S. to get tougher with China on trade and economic issues . Yet while Americans may see China as a problem , relatively few describe it as an adversary , and a 58 % majority say it is very important to build a stronger relationship between the U.S. and China . By comparison , promoting human rights and better environmental policies and practices are important , but lower priorities .
Biden holds a 34-point advantage over Trump among Latino eligible voters , far larger than Biden 's 10-point lead among all U.S. voters . In the new survey , 63 % of Latino voters say they would vote for Biden or lean toward voting for him if the election were held today , while 29 % say they would vote for Trump or lean toward voting for him . In 2016 , Latino voters had similar preferences , according to exit polls and a Pew Research Center study of validated voters . Among Hispanic voters , a higher share of college graduates than those with some college experience or less say they favor Biden , 69 % vs. 61 % . Meanwhile , 67 % of Hispanic women voters and 59 % of registered Hispanic men say they prefer Biden . Biden holds a narrower lead over Trump ( 54 % vs. 37 % ) among Latino registered voters in nine `` battleground '' states – Arizona , Florida , Georgia , Iowa , Michigan , North Carolina , Ohio , Pennsylvania and Wisconsin .
1 40 % of internet users have personally experienced online harassment . We defined online harassment as having had at least one of six incidents personally occur to someone : name-calling , efforts to be purposefully embarrassed , physical threats , harassment over a sustained period of time , sexual harassment , and stalking . ( Respondents were separately asked if they had witnessed any of these behaviors occur to others online ; 73 % said they had ) . Online harassment fell into two distinct , but frequently overlapping , categories of severity – `` less severe '' harassment was composed of name-calling and embarrassment ; 22 % of internet users exclusively experienced this kind of harassment . Another 18 % of internet users experienced any of the `` more severe '' types of harassment , including physical threats , sustained harassment , stalking , and sexual harassment . Young adults are the most likely demographic group to experience harassment online . Some 65 % of internet users ages 18 - 29 have experienced some type of online harassment . The youngest internet users , those ages 18 - 24 , are not only more likely to say they experience online harassment overall ( 70 % say they 've been victim of at least one type ) but also significantly more likely to say they are targets of some of the more severe kinds of harassment like physical threats ( 24 % ) , sexual harassment ( 19 % ) , and harassment over a sustained period of time ( 17 % ) .
These findings are based on the most recent installment of the weekly News Interest Index , an ongoing project of the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The index , building on the Center 's longstanding research into public attentiveness to major news stories , examines news interest as it relates to the news media 's agenda . The weekly survey is conducted in conjunction with The Project for Excellence in Journalism 's News Coverage Index , which monitors the news reported by major newspaper , television , radio and online news outlets on an ongoing basis . In the most recent week , data relating to news coverage was collected from April 7 - 13 and survey data measuring public interest in the top news stories of the week was collected April 11 - 14 from a nationally representative sample of 1,003 adults . The Iraq policy debate was back in the news last week , as Gen. David Petraeus delivered his latest progress report on the war to members of Congress . The national news media devoted 10 % of its coverage to the Iraq policy debate and another 4 % to events on the ground in Iraq . Roughly one-in-five Americans ( 19 % ) paid very close attention to Petraeus ' appearance before Congress . Just 6 % listed news about Petraeus as the single story they followed more closely than any other last week – ranking it fifth among the top six stories of the week .
Adults who live in someone else 's household typically live with a relative . Today , 14 % of adults living in someone else 's household are a parent of the household head , up from 7 % in 1995 . Some 47 % of extra adults today are adult children living in their mom and/or dad 's home , down from 52 % in 1995 . Other examples of extra adults are a sibling living in the home of a brother or sister , or a roommate .
While four-in-ten ( 40 % ) say they pay more than their fair share considering what they get from the federal government , 53 % say they pay about the right amount . Just 4 % say they pay less than their fair share . Opinion varies considerably based on annual family income . Among those making $ 100,000 or more , 54 % think they pay more than their fair share ; among adults with incomes less than $ 30,000 , just 27 % say this .
A majority of Americans would like to see Barack Obama and Republican leaders work together over the coming year . But Republicans are far more likely than Democrats to favor a confrontational approach toward the political opposition , even if that results in less getting done . Overall , 57 % of the public says Republican leaders in Washington should try as best they can to work with Barack Obama to accomplish things , even if it means disappointing some groups of Republican supporters , while 40 % say they should `` stand up '' to Obama on issues that are important to Republican supporters , even if it means less gets done in Washington . And by about a two-to-one margin ( 62 % to 30 % ) more say Obama should work with Republicans than say he should stand up to the GOP . Within the Republican Party , only about a third of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 32 % ) want to see the GOP leadership work with Obama if it disappoints some groups of Republican supporters . About twice as many ( 66 % ) say GOP leaders should stand up to Obama even if less gets done . This reflects a shift away from wanting to see their leadership work with Obama in the wake of his reelection two years ago , but is little different than opinions among Republicans after the party 's 2010 midterm victory . In contrast , about half ( 52 % ) of Democrats and Democratic leaning independents say Obama should try as best he can to work with Republican leadership even if it results in some disappointment among Democrats , while 43 % say he should stand up on issues important to Democrats at the risk of less productivity in Washington .
Among the candidates for the Democratic presidential primary , Sanders is followed by the largest share ( 21 % ) of Democrats on the site . A slightly smaller share of Democrats on Twitter follow Warren ( 16 % ) , while 11 % follow Biden and 10 % follow Buttigieg . Former president Barack Obama remains the most-followed major political figure within this group , followed by some 48 % of Democrats on Twitter . Hillary Clinton is followed by about one-in-five Democrats on Twitter ( 21 % ) , while 13 % follow Donald Trump – comparable to the share who follow many of the current Democratic primary candidates .
As the public grows more politically polarized , differences between conservatives and liberals extend their long reach even to opinions about which qualities are important to teach children , according to a survey by the Pew Research Center . People who express consistently conservative political attitudes across a range of issues are more likely than other ideological groups to rate teaching religious faith as especially important – and the least likely to say the same about teaching tolerance . By contrast , people with consistent liberal opinions stand out for the high priority they give to teaching tolerance – and the low priority they attach to teaching religious faith and obedience .
This chart subdivides the entry cohorts of Mexican migrants by legal status ( and presents the data in bars that represent the average annual flows ) . The cohorts who have entered from Mexico since 1990 ( i.e. , in the U.S. for 14 years or less ) are principally unauthorized . This trend translates into an average of about 400,000 - 485,000 annual unauthorized entrants from Mexico . Of those cohorts in the country more than 14 years , most are legal residents . For those entering before 1985 , virtually all are legal . ( In fact , the unauthorized component shown for the pre-1985 entrants may be largely estimation and sampling error . )
The public is split in their general preferences on the size and scope of government : 47 % say they would rather have a smaller government providing fewer services while an identical share say they would prefer a bigger government providing more services . While more men prefer a smaller government to a bigger government ( 59 % to 37 % ) , the balance of opinion is reverse among women ; 58 % prefer a larger government , while 36 % say they would rather have a smaller government . A majority of those with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more ( 60 % ) say they would rather have smaller government with fewer services . In contrast , most of those with incomes of less than $ 30,000 ( 62 % ) prefer a bigger government providing more services . Views are about evenly divided among those with incomes between $ 30,000 and $ 75,000 .
Moreover , more than a third of all Hispanics ( 36 % ) say they are satisfied with the current overall direction of the country , up from 25 % who said the same in 2008 ( Lopez and Minushkin , 2008 ) . On this question , Hispanics are more upbeat than all Americans . Only about a quarter ( 25 % ) of the general public said in late summer they were satisfied with the way things in the country were going ( Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , 2010b ) .
A survey of veterans conducted during the summer of 2011 , about 8 years after the war began , found that that less than half ( 44 % ) of those who served in the past decade 's conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan thought that the effort in Iraq had been worth it given the costs to the U.S. vs. the benefits . Half of those surveyed said it was not . At the time of the survey , the percentage of veterans who served after the Sept. 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States who thought Iraq was worth it was higher than that the general public ( 36 % ) . A more recent survey , conducted March 14 - 17 , 2012 , asked only the general public whether the decision to U.S. military force in Iraq was the right one : 44 % said it was wrong and 41 % said it was right . The Iraq War got less approval from older veterans in the 2011 survey : 35 % who served before Vietnam and 36 % who served during it said Iraq has been worth fighting , compared with 44 % of all who have served in the military since Vietnam .
Nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they followed news about the economy very closely last week , a level of interest comparable to most weeks over the past year . Another 16 % say they very closely followed news about related economic problems in several European countries ; 3 % say this was their top story . News about the struggling European economies accounted for 2 % of coverage . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed election news very closely last week , a level of interest that has held relatively steady for much of 2012 .
However , the overall gains mask a lengthy period – a lost decade , and then some – of losses from 2000 to 2013 . During this time , the median incomes of lower- , middle- and upper-income households have fallen by 9 % , 6 % and 6 % , respectively . Currently , the incomes of these households are comparable to what they were in 1997 . In 2013 , upper-income households accounted for 47 % of aggregate household income , more than double the share of adults ( 20 % ) living in those households . Middle-income households accounted for 44 % of aggregate household income , less than the share of adults ( 51 % ) living in those households . Today 's distribution of aggregate income stands in stark contrast to what it looked like four decades ago . In 1970 , middle-income households accounted for 62 % of aggregate income , similar to the share of the adult population ( 61 % ) in those households . Upper-income households held a 29 % share in the aggregate income of U.S. households in 1970 , and 14 % of the adult population lived in those households .
Among self-identified Hispanics , connections with ancestral national origins decline as immigrant roots become more distant . Eight-in-ten immigrants ( 82 % ) who identify as Hispanics say they feel very or somewhat connected with their country of origin . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) second-generation Hispanics – the children of at least one immigrant parent – say the same . However , by the third generation , only 44 % feel very or somewhat connected to their family 's country of origin .
About a third of the public ( 34 % ) says they followed news about the oil leak more closely than other major stories , 15 % say they followed news about the economy most closely and 13 % say they focused most closely on the mosque debate , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Aug 19 - 22 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press among 1,003 adults . Another 9 % say their top story was the withdrawal of the last U.S. combat forces from Iraq . The controversy over the Islamic center accounted for 15 % of news coverage , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , making it the most reported story of the week . The war in Iraq and the withdrawal of U.S. combat forces accounted for 9 % of the newshole , making it the second most reported story ; economic news accounted for 7 % . News about the oil leak took up just 3 % of coverage . The public 's continued high interest likely reflects the perceived importance of the story .
The public places great importance on a broad range of democratic ideals and principles . Across most of the 10 democratic values asked about in the survey – including respecting the rights of all , ensuring that governmental branches keep one another from having too much power , and ensuring elected officials face serious consequences for misconduct – large majorities say these are very important for the country .
Three years ago , Pew Research Center found that the 2016 presidential campaign was `` unfolding against a backdrop of intense partisan division and animosity . '' Today , the level of division and animosity – including negative sentiments among partisans toward the members of the opposing party – has only deepened . The share of Republicans who give Democrats a `` cold '' rating on a 0 - 100 thermometer has risen 14 percentage points since 2016 – with virtually all of the increase coming in `` very cold '' ratings ( 0 - 24 ) . Democrats ' views of Republicans have followed a similar trajectory : 57 % give Republicans a very cold rating , up from 41 % three years ago . The survey by Pew Research Center was conducted Sept. 3 - 15 among 9,895 adults ( it was completed before House Speaker Nancy Pelosi 's Sept. 24 announcement of an impeachment inquiry into President Donald Trump ) . It finds that both Republicans and Democrats express negative views about several traits and characteristics of those in the opposing party , and in some cases these opinions have grown more negative since 2016 .
Majorities in Lebanon ( 64 % ) , Egypt ( 58 % ) and Jordan ( 56 % ) also have unfavorable views , as does a 42 % -plurality in Turkey . Tunisians are nearly evenly divided , with 40 % expressing positive views and 37 % expressing unfavorable views of the Palestinian leader .
Republicans are much more likely than Democrats to say strengthening the U.S. military should be a top policy priority ( 76 % vs. 33 % ) . Republicans also are 23 points more likely than Democrats to say dealing with the issue of immigration should be given top priority ( 66 % vs. 43 % ) . There is a comparably large gap on the emphasis given to reducing the budget deficit : 70 % of Republicans say this is a top priority compared with 48 % of Democrats . Over the past several years , the partisan divide over the importance of strengthening the U.S. military has grown significantly . Republicans have historically been more likely than Democrats to say strengthening the military should be a top priority . In January 2014 , 61 % of Republicans said strengthening the military should be a top priority compared with 36 % of Democrats – a 25-point gap in opinion . Since 2014 , Republicans have become 15 points more likely to prioritize strengthening the military . Views among Democrats edged higher in 2015 , but have fallen back to about where they were in 2014 ( 36 % said it was top priority in 2014 , compared with 33 % in the current survey ) . As a result , Republicans are now 43 points more likely than Democrats to say strengthening the U.S. military should be a top priority for the president and Congress – the widest partisan gap in opinion over the fifteen year history of this question .
4 Women from nine countries and one American territory account for more than half of all babies born to foreign-born women in the U.S . Births to women from Mexico , China , India , El Salvador , Guatemala , the Philippines , Honduras , Vietnam , Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico accounted for 58 % of all births to immigrant mothers in the U.S. in 2014 . Beyond marital status , new immigrant moms vary dramatically on a variety of characteristics depending on where they are from . For instance , about 4 % of new foreign-born mothers from India – one of the top 10 countries of origin among new foreign-born moms – are living in poverty , compared with 49 % of new mothers from Honduras . And new mothers from Vietnam , the Philippines and China are particularly likely to be older mothers . The new foreign-born mother 's likelihood of being married also varies significantly : Two-thirds of births to mothers from Honduras occurred outside of marriage , while virtually all births to Indian moms occurred within marriage .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 's visit to the U.S. drew a large news audience last week . Aside from the Iraq war it was the most closely followed news story , with 23 % of the public following the story very closely , and 14 % listing it as the single news story they followed most closely . Ahmadinejad 's visit , as well as broader issues relating to U.S.-Iranian relations , was the most heavily covered news story of the week . Fully 13 % of the national newshole was devoted to this story .
In some ways , the findings from the new survey mirror results from the head-to-head question about sympathies . Among the public overall , larger shares have favorable opinions of both the Israeli people ( 64 % very or somewhat favorable ) and the Israeli government ( 41 % ) than of the Palestinian people ( 46 % ) and the Palestinian government ( 19 % ) .
There is a strong association between a voter 's level of political activism and the amount of campaign outreach they received in the month before the election . Voters who were more highly engaged in the campaign report that they were contacted much more often by campaigns than less engaged voters . And voters are much more likely than nonvoters to report receiving several different types of contact from political campaigns late in the presidential campaign . Three-in-ten nonvoters say they did n't receive any of the types of campaign communications asked about in the survey , and 20 % say they received just one type of contact .
Today , the Pew Research Center released a new report examining the local news environment in three U.S. metropolitan areas of different population size and demographic makeup : Denver , Macon , Ga. , and Sioux City , Iowa . Here are five key takeaways based on the report , which incorporates data from surveys , analysis of media content , an audit of local news providers and social media analysis . Local news matters to local residents . About nine-in-ten residents in each city said they followed news about their local area at least somewhat closely , while about eight-in-ten said the same about neighborhood news . This is true in Denver , where researchers found 143 sources of news and information , but it 's also true in Macon , with 24 sources , and Sioux City , with 31 sources . Digital technology has impacted news habits in all three cities , but at different levels . More than half of residents in Sioux City and two-thirds in Macon and Denver access at least one news provider digitally , and roughly a quarter say they get at least some local news from social networking sites . But within those numbers , residents of Denver are most likely to say the internet is very important to keeping up with local news ( 45 % , compared with 38 % in Macon and 33 % in Sioux City ) , and news providers there make greater use of digital capabilities such as embedded links in news stories ( 31 % of news stories in Denver contained these , versus fewer than 5 % in Macon or Sioux City ) . Of these cities , it is Macon – the least prosperous but the one with the highest level of interest in local news – where residents are most likely to access a specific news provider on a social networking site .
In the news last week , no single story captured the interest of the American public . The war in Iraq was the most closely followed news story — 26 % of the public followed news of the war very closely and 20 % listed this as their most closely followed story . The shooting at a Cleveland , Ohio high school attracted only moderate interest . The incident , which resulted in the death of the shooter but no other fatalities , was followed very closely by 22 % of the public and 17 % listed this as their most closely followed story . Interest in this shooting was much lower than previous school shootings many of which had been followed very closely by nearly 50 % of the public . The national news media devoted 4 % of its overall coverage to the shootings , the bulk of which was on network and cable television news . The media focused heavily on the 2008 presidential campaign— devoting 15 % of its coverage to campaign-related news . Public interest in the campaign fell off significantly last week with only 13 % of the public paying very close attention to campaign news ( 8 % listed the campaign as their most closely followed story ) .
Earlier surveys by Pew Research Center show that many Americans see the creation and spread of made-up news and information as a considerable problem . In an early 2019 survey , 50 % of U.S. adults said made-up news and information was a very big problem in the country today – a larger share than said the same about issues including racism , illegal immigration , terrorism and sexism . Around half or more also said made-up news has a big impact on political leaders ' ability to get work done ( 51 % ) , Americans ' confidence in each other ( 54 % ) and their confidence in the government ( 68 % ) .
German reticence about taking on more international burdens can be seen in public attitudes toward greater sharing of the global security burden . Asked if Germany should play a more active military role in helping to maintain peace and stability in the world , only 25 % of Germans agree . Just over two-thirds ( 69 % ) believe that , given its history , Germany should limit its military role in world affairs .
The Pew Research Center survey conducted in April shows declining favorability for the Supreme Court more generally ; 52 % say they have a favorable opinion of the nation 's top court , down from 58 % in 2010 and the previous low of 57 % in 2005 and 2007 . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they have an unfavorable view , which approaches the high reached in 2005 ( 30 % ) .
The annual growth rate of the U.S. Hispanic population remained flat between 2016 and 2017 , but Hispanics continue to account for more of the nation 's overall population growth than any other race or ethnicity , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of preliminary population estimates from the Census Bureau . Asians had the highest annual growth rate ( 3.0 % ) of any major U.S. racial or ethnic group in 2017 . The Hispanic growth rate followed at 2.0 % , exceeding that of blacks ( 0.9 % ) and whites ( decrease of < 0.1 % ) . Overall , the U.S. annual population growth rate has held steady at 0.7 % since 2011 . Following a Hispanic population boom in the 1990s that was driven by immigration and high fertility rates , the Hispanic population 's annual growth rate peaked at 4.2 % in 2001 . It then started to decline as fertility rates fell and immigration slowed , a trend that accelerated during the Great Recession . While the foreign born accounted for 40 % of Hispanic annual population growth in 2006 , that share dropped to 34 % by 2015 . Fertility rates declined from a peak of 98.3 births per 1,000 Hispanic women in 2006 to 71.7 in 2015 .
Many singles are open to dating someone who is different from them , but certain characteristics would give some people pause . Distance , debt and voting for Donald Trump top the list of reasons singles looking for a relationship would n't consider a potential partner , but there are other considerations , too . For example , 38 % say dating someone 10 years older than them would give them pause , and 36 % say the same about dating someone who is raising children from another relationship . Some of those looking for a relationship also say they definitely or probably would n't consider being in a relationship with someone who is a Republican ( 27 % of all daters ) , someone who voted for Hillary Clinton ( 26 % ) , someone who practices a different religion ( 23 % ) or someone who is a different race or ethnicity ( 15 % ) . Among daters looking for a relationship who are 28 and older , 27 % say they definitely or probably would n't consider a relationship with someone 10 years younger than them .
Large majorities in all three nations believe that elites have prospered over the last two decades , while average citizens have not . In Ukraine , for instance , 95 % think politicians have benefited a great deal or a fair amount from the changes since 1991 , and 76 % say this about business owners . However , just 11 % believe ordinary people have benefited .
Proximity to abortion clinics is associated with individual perceptions of how easy or difficult it is to obtain an abortion . However , partisanship is a more important factor than distance to the nearest abortion provider in shaping peoples ' views of whether an abortion should be harder or easier to obtain locally , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of an American Trends Panel survey conducted July 22-Aug. 4 , 2019 .
Millennials are now the largest generation in the U.S. labor force . Roughly a third of Americans in the labor force ( 35 % , or 56 million ) are Millennials – those ages 23 to 38 in 2019 . In 2016 , Millennials surpassed Generation Xers ( ages 39 to 54 in 2019 ) to become the single largest generational group in the U.S. labor force . Compared with Baby Boomers , Gen Xers ' place as the dominant generation within the labor force was very short-lived – just three years .
In 2014 , the most recent year for which data are available , 44.1 % of black public elementary and secondary school students attended schools where at least half of their peers were also black . Among Hispanics , 56.7 % went to schools where at least half of students were also Hispanic .
This chart shows average family income , average family size , and average income per person for natives , legal immigrants , and unauthorized migrants based on the March 2004 CPS . The incomes of unauthorized migrants and their families shown here reflect the comparative levels of education shown earlier and the occupations/industries where they work . Specifically , average family income of unauthorized migrant families is more than 40 % below the average income of either legal immigrant or native families . In addition to education and occupation differences , another factor contributing to this difference is the lower labor force participation of unauthorized females that results in fewer workers per family than in the other groups . A key element of income is the amount available per person in the family . Because unauthorized families tend to be larger with lower incomes than natives , the difference in average income per person5 is even larger than the difference in income . Thus , the average income per person in unauthorized families ( $ 12,000 ) is about 40 % less than legal immigrant families and more than 50 % below the per capita income in native families .
But the survey , conducted Aug. 15 - 18 , also finds that 44 % of Americans are unsure whether ACA remains the law . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they do n't know , while 8 % think it has been repealed by Congress and 5 % believe it was overturned by the Supreme Court ( which upheld the law in June by a 5-to-4 decision ) .
The survey finds that most Republicans and Republican leaners favor Trump listening more to members of the party with experience in government . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say Trump should listen more to Republicans who have experience working in government , while 34 % say he should listen less . However , conservative Republicans ( 52 % ) are less likely than moderate and liberal Republicans ( 70 % ) to say Trump needs to listen more to members of the GOP with experience in government .
Self-identified liberals make up a larger share of the Democratic Party than they once did . Nearly half of all Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 46 % ) describe their political views as liberal , an increase of 17 percentage points since 2003 . Today , 39 % of Democrats say they are moderate , while just 14 % are conservative .
The Pew Research Center released its latest numbers on home broadband adoption this week , reporting that seven in ten American adults now have a broadband connection at home . The report also found that one in ten Americans own a smartphone but lack home broadband .
The U.S. is the leading defense spender among member states , committing an estimated 3.87 % of GDP to defense expenditures in 2020 . Nine other countries – including several in Central and Eastern Europe – also meet NATO 's 2 % threshold . Just one country – Luxembourg – spends less than 1 % of GDP on defense . While Trump has been openly critical of the level of allies ' defense spending , estimated defense expenditures as a share of GDP have risen since 2016 , not only in the U.S. but among key NATO allies as well . For example , this year marks the first in which France is estimated to spend over 2 % of GDP on defense . The UK has already reached this threshold , and German defense spending is on the rise .
Refugees are persons who cross international borders to seek protection from persecution , war and violence . Their total number has also increased from 50 years ago . Not including Palestinian refugees , there were about 1.7 million refugees worldwide in 1960 , and about 16 million in 2015 , according to United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . The number of refugees in 2015 , however , is slightly less than the early 1990s following the fall of the Berlin Wall . As of 2015 , refugees account for only about 8 % of all international migrants .
The notion that age and political ideology are related goes back at least to French monarchist statesman François Guizot , who originated the oft-mangled quotation , `` Not to be a republican at 20 is proof of want of heart ; to be one at 30 is proof of want of head . '' But data from the Pew Research Center 's new political typology report indicate that , while different age cohorts do have markedly different profiles , the relationship is considerably more complex than young=liberal and old=conservative . The report , based on a survey of more than 10,000 Americans , finds that among the oldest Americans ( those ages 65 and up ) , nearly two-thirds are at opposite ends of the typology . 32 % fall into the two strongest Republican-oriented groups ( what we call Steadfast Conservatives and Business Conservatives ) and 33 % are either Solid Liberals or Faith and Family Left , the two strongest Democratic-aligned groups . ( Steadfast and Business Conservatives are separated mainly by the latter 's more Wall Street orientation , while the Faith and Family Left tend to be more conservative on social issues than Solid Liberals . )
In the vast majority of local TV newsrooms , budgets either grew or held steady in 2013 . About half of the news directors surveyed ( 52 % ) said they increased their news budgets last year , compared with 49 % the year before and 38 % in 2011 . But there were differences by market size . Indeed , 54 % of the mid-sized market stations ( 51 - 100 ) said they increased their budgets compared with 41 % whose budgets were cut or stayed the same . But in the biggest 25 TV markets , the percentage of stations increasing their budgets in 2013 ( 48 % ) was identical to the percentage that cut or did not increase their spending .
There are strong differences between those who are religiously affiliated and unaffiliated when it comes to the importance of teaching children about religious faith . Fully 37 % of all those with a religious affiliation ( and 60 % of white evangelical Protestants ) say that religious faith is among the most important qualities to teach children . By contrast , just 3 % of those who are unaffiliated say religious faith is among the most important qualities to instill . Though less stark , there are significant religious divides over the importance of teaching children some other key values . Those with religious affiliations—and particularly white Evangelical Protestants—are more likely than the religiously unaffiliated to prioritize obedience and being well-mannered , and somewhat less likely to say creativity , curiosity or tolerance is important .
Nearly eight-in-ten of those who said in a January survey that Biden was their first choice for the Democratic presidential nomination ( 79 % ) now say the likely Democratic nominee being a white man in his 70s does not bother them . A narrower majority of those who backed Sen. Bernie Sanders in January ( 58 % ) say the same . However , about six-in-ten Democratic voters who supported other candidates in January now say they are bothered that the likely Democratic nominee is an older white man . Voters who preferred Sen. Elizabeth Warren are particularly likely to hold this view : Nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) say this , as do 57 % of those who backed Pete Buttigieg and 52 % of those who supported other candidates at the beginning of the year .
One bright spot : Household debt is taking up less of people 's disposable income , as mortgage balances and credit-card balances continue to fall . Student-loan balances , though , are on the rise — up $ 20 billion in the first quarter of 2013 , to a total of $ 986 billion . Since the second quarter of 2010 , student loans have constituted the second-biggest category of household debt , after mortgage debt .
The Democratic contest has remained largely stable nationwide . Despite state polls that show very close races in Iowa , New Hampshire and South Carolina , Hillary Clinton maintains a 20-point lead over Barack Obama among registered Democrats and Democratic-leaning voters nationwide ( 46 % to 26 % ) , with John Edwards holding at 14 % .
Support for promoting the increased use of nuclear power , which slipped after last year 's Japan nuclear disaster , has recovered modestly . Currently , 44 % favor the increased use of nuclear power while 49 % are opposed . Last March , 39 % favored greater use of nuclear power and 53 % were opposed .
These changes are related : Non-broadband adopters who view a lack of home service as a major disadvantage are also more likely to cite the monthly cost of broadband as the primary reason they do not subscribe . Price sensitivity , in other words , is greatest among those who are most likely to see the advantages of a home broadband subscription .
Because so few children come to the U.S. as immigrants , young Hispanics are overwhelmingly U.S. born . Among children younger than 18 , 94 % are U.S. born , and about two-thirds of Hispanic Millennials ( 65 % ) were born in the U.S . This compares with about four-in-ten Gen Xers , Boomers and older adults who are U.S. born .
The share of Americans who say racism is a `` big problem '' in society has increased 8 percentage points in the past two years – and has roughly doubled since 2011 . Overall , 58 % of Americans say racism is a `` big problem in our society , '' while 29 % say it is `` somewhat of a problem . '' Just 12 % say racism in the U.S. is a small problem or not a problem , according to a new Pew Research Center survey , conducted Aug. 15 - 21 among 1,893 adults . Two years ago , 50 % of the public viewed racism as a major problem for society , and in 2011 just 28 % did so .
Overall , 42 % percent of all adults age 18 and older own a game console , and it is especially popular with members of the Millennial Generation and Generation X. Sixty-three percent of all adults ages 18 - 46 own a game console like an Xbox or Play Station , as well as 38 % of those ages 47 - 56 . Ownership rates continue to drop off , to 19 % of Older Boomers ( ages 56 - 64 ) , 8 % of the Silent Generation ( ages 66 - 74 ) , and only 3 % of the G.I . Generation ( age 75 and older ) .
Americans ' positive view of free trade deals has ebbed in recent years : 51 % say such trade agreements between the U.S. and other countries have been a good thing for the country , while 39 % believe they have been a bad thing . Favorable views of free trade accords peaked in 2014 ( 59 % ) , and current positive assessments are similar to those measured in March 2011 .
In 2010 , 62 % of Brazilians described the economic situation in their country as good . But as growth diminished more rapidly in recent years , public assessment of the economic health of the nation also has fallen sharply , by 27 percentage points from 2013 to 2014 . In addition , a 2014 Pew Research Center survey found that 63 % of Brazilians disapproved of the way Rousseff was handling the economy .
Currently , 87 % of those who identify with the Republican Party view the Democratic Party unfavorably ; Republican-leaning independents are almost as likely to view the Democratic Party negatively ( 81 % unfavorable ) . Opinions among Democrats and Democratic leaners are nearly the mirror image : 88 % of Democrats and 84 % of Democratic leaners view the GOP unfavorably . In both parties , the shares of partisan identifiers and leaners with unfavorable impressions of the opposition party are at or near all-time highs . Perhaps more important , intense dislike of the opposing party , which has surged over the past two decades among partisans , has followed a similar trajectory among independents who lean toward the Republican and Democratic parties .
Single adults accounted for the majority of apprehensions in fiscal 2020 , another big shift from last year . There were 317,864 apprehensions of single adults , representing 79 % of the total and the largest number of single adults apprehended in six years . Apprehensions of `` family units '' – defined as the number of individuals traveling in a family – made up 13 % of the total , falling from 473,682 in fiscal 2019 to 52,230 this past year . Meanwhile , apprehensions of unaccompanied children ages 17 and younger also decreased from their peak in fiscal 2019 , from 76,020 to 30,557 .
The public 's appetite for presidential campaign news reached an all time high last week as Obama and McCain faced off in their third and final debate . Fully , 61 % of Americans reported following news about the campaign very closely and another three-in-ten ( 28 % ) were following the race fairly closely . The campaign attracted significantly more attention than the previous week , when roughly half ( 52 % ) followed election news very closely . The level of public interest in the campaign for mid-October is significantly higher than at the same point in 2004 ( 56 % now vs. 46 % then ) . An analysis comparing the last two News Interest Index surveys ( conducted Oct. 10 - 13 and Oct. 17 - 20 ) with results from mid-October 2004 finds that interest in the campaign is up among many subgroups . There is much higher interest this year among African Americans ( up 24 points ) , those with a high school degree or less education ( up 18 points ) , Democrats ( up 17 points ) and those 65 years and older ( up 16 points ) . Meanwhile , the percent of Republicans following campaign news very closely is the same ( 57 % ) as it was at this point in 2004 .
Smart speakers such as Amazon Echo or Google Home have gained popularity over the last several years , and consumer experts found that these devices were especially popular with holiday season gift buyers last year . But even as some Americans are integrating these devices into their homes , many owners express concerns over data collection and personalization , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 3 - 17 , 2019 .
It also remains the case that older adults face unique barriers to using and adopting new technologies . Some 34 % of older internet users say they have little to no confidence in their ability to use electronic devices to perform online tasks , while 48 % of seniors say that this statement describes them very well : `` When I get a new electronic device , I usually need someone else to set it up or show me how to use it . ''
Mobile is becoming a preferred device for digital news . The portion of Americans who ever get news on a mobile device has gone up from 54 % in 2013 to 72 % today . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Americans get news on both desktop/laptop and mobile , but more of those prefer mobile ( 56 % ) than desktop ( 42 % ) .
And when it comes to the global economy , those who say the economy in their country is doing poorly or are concerned about the future of their economy are more likely to see the condition of the global economy as a major threat .
Among the 38 countries surveyed , South Korea is the most likely to say that the U.S. is the leading economic power ( 66 % ) , followed closely by Japan ( 62 % ) . Roughly half say the U.S. is the world 's economic leader in Israel ( 52 % ) , Vietnam ( 51 % ) , Hungary ( 51 % ) and the U.S. itself ( 51 % ) .
Europeans are pessimistic about their long-term economic future . Many are unhappy with the current state of the economy in Europe : In five of the 10 European nations we polled earlier this year , majorities described the economic situation in the country as bad . But perhaps more troublingly , Europeans have a grim view about the economic prospects for the next generation . In 2015 , we asked people in 40 nations around the world whether children in their country will be better or worse off financially than their parents when they grow up . In Latin America , Africa and Asia , people tended to believe the next generation would be better off , but in the Middle East , the United States and especially in Europe , there was widespread pessimism .
About one-in-five ( 22 % ) expect that economic conditions will be better a year from now than they are today , while the same percentage says things will be worse ; 54 % expect conditions to be about the same . The share expecting the economy to improve has remained fairly stable for more than a year .
Pew Research Center surveys of transatlantic experts and general publics in North America and Europe reveal a division between these two groups over the role of the people 's voice in governing . While a median of 68 % of the 12 publics surveyed say allowing citizens to vote directly on major national issues would be a good way to govern their country , just 37 % of foreign policy experts surveyed agree .
Last year , two Oxford researchers proposed a new way of estimating how vulnerable different occupations are to future technological advances . The researchers , Carl Benedikt Frey and Michael Osborne , focused on the extent to which occupations involve three types of tasks — perception and manipulation , creative intelligence and social intelligence — that , they argue , are least likely to be fully and successfully automated within the next few decades . The more a job involves such tasks , the less susceptible it is to computerization . Frey and Osborne analyzed 702 occupations this way , sorting them into high , medium and low risk of computerization . They concluded that 47 % of total U.S. employment is in the high risk category , including most workers in transportation and logistics occupations , office and administrative support occupations , and production workers . Among the jobs at the highest risk for computerization : telemarketers , title examiners , insurance underwriters , watch repairers and tax preparers .
A 2013 Pew Research Center survey of Hispanic adults finds that about four-in-ten Salvadorans ( 42 % ) identify themselves as Catholic . Some 37 % of Salvadorans are Protestant , and among all Salvadorans , only 5 % are mainline Protestants and 32 % are evangelical Protestants . Some 15 % of Salvadoran adults are religiously unaffiliated . In contrast , among all Hispanics , 55 % identify as Catholic , 22 % identify as Protestant , and about two-in-ten ( 18 % ) are unaffiliated .
Five years after the financial crisis , views of the national economy still remain negative . Only 19 % rate the economy as excellent or good . By contrast , about a third ( 32 % ) rate the economy as poor and roughly half ( 48 % ) say economic conditions are only fair .
With the Senate confirmation of Elena Kagan 's nomination to the Supreme Court , she joins an institution that for the public is largely out of sight and out of mind . While legal scholars analyze Kagan 's possible impact on the `` Roberts court , '' most Americans have no idea who `` Roberts '' is . In Pew Research 's latest political knowledge quiz , just 28 % correctly identified John Roberts as chief justice — from a list that included Harry Reid , Thurgood Marshall and John Paul Stevens .
Americans ' confidence in medical scientists has grown since the coronavirus outbreak first began to upend life in the United States , as have perceptions that medical doctors hold very high ethical standards . And in their own estimation , most U.S. adults think the outbreak raises the importance of scientific developments . Public confidence in medical scientists to act in the best interests of the public has gone up from 35 % with a great deal of confidence before the outbreak to 43 % in the Center 's April survey . Similarly , there is a modest uptick in public confidence in scientists , from 35 % in 2019 to 39 % today . ( A random half of survey respondents rated their confidence in one of the two groups . )
Six major publicly held local TV station companies – Tribune , Nexstar , Sinclair , Tegna , Gray and Scripps – report political advertising revenue separately from other types of revenues in their Securities and Exchange Commission filings . In 2018 , the six companies reported a total of $ 1.2 billion in political advertising revenue , compared with $ 843 million in 2016 and $ 696 million in 2014 , the two most recent election years . ( Data points for 2012 to 2016 also include Media General , which was purchased by Nexstar in 2017 . )
Over the past year , there has been a substantial rise in the share of Americans — across racial and ethnic groups — who say the country needs to continue making changes to give blacks equal rights with whites , and a growing number of Americans view racism as a big problem in society . Today , 50 years after the passage of the Voting Rights Act , roughly six-in-ten Americans ( 59 % ) say the country needs to continue making changes to achieve racial equality , while 32 % say the country has made the changes needed to give blacks equal rights with whites . A year ago — and at previous points in the last six years — public opinion was much more closely divided on this question . Though a substantial racial divide in these views remains , a majority of whites ( 53 % ) now say more needs to be done . Last year , just 39 % of whites said this . And although large majorities of African Americans have consistently said that changes must continue to be made to achieve racial equality , the share saying this now ( 86 % ) is greater than in the past .
Of all the major religious groups in the U.S. , white evangelical Protestants are the most likely to reject evolution . Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of white evangelicals say that humans and other living things have always existed in their present form , while roughly one-in-ten white evangelicals ( 8 % ) say that humans evolved through natural processes . On the other end of the spectrum are the unaffiliated , a majority of whom ( 57 % ) said they believe that life evolved through natural processes .
Despite the general belief that trade is good for the economy , there is substantial skepticism regarding its impact on jobs , wages and prices . About half ( a median of 49 % ) say trade creates jobs , roughly one-in-three ( 34 % ) believe it increases wages , and only about one-in-four ( 27 % ) think it decreases prices .
Income inequality in the U.S. is the highest of all the G7 nations , according to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development . To compare income inequality across countries , the OECD uses the Gini coefficient , a commonly used measure ranging from 0 , or perfect equality , to 1 , or complete inequality . In 2017 , the U.S. had a Gini coefficient of 0.434 . In the other G7 nations , the Gini ranged from 0.326 in France to 0.392 in the UK .
Interest has been at about this level for the past several months . At a comparable point in the presidential race four years ago , 20 % said they were very closely following news about the candidates hoping to represent their parties in the 2008 election . As is the case today , the level of interest fluctuated only slightly week to week in 2007 . News coverage of the 2012 campaign , which has increased in recent weeks , also is about the same today as it was at this point in the previous campaign , according to data collected by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Last week , coverage of the campaign accounted for 13 % of the newshole ; only the economy — combined with the debate over whether to raise the national debt limit — drew more coverage ( a total of 19 % ) . Michele Bachmann was the top campaign newsmaker last week , according to PEJ
There are significant differences by party and ideology in views of all three leaders , however views of Netanyahu are the most polarized . By 50 % to 22 % , more Republicans and Republican leaners view Netanyahu favorably than unfavorably ( 28 % do not offer a rating ) . Views are especially positive among conservative Republicans . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , more view Netanyahu unfavorably ( 45 % ) than favorably ( 21 % ) , while 34 % can not rate him . Liberal Democrats hold more negative views of Netanyahu than conservative and moderate Democrats .
The largest differences are by party , and they are especially significant . CPC supporters ( 72 % ) are far more likely to favor building the pipeline , compared with only 45 % of Liberals and an even smaller share of NDP followers ( 22 % ) . The NDP won provincial elections in Alberta in May and opposes construction of the pipeline . However , Albertans do not share the NDP 's opinion . Nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) in Alberta favor building the pipeline through their oil sands region , while only 38 % support it in Ontario and British Columbia and 31 % in Quebec .
The data show a basically stable trend in over-estimating voter registration in telephone surveys from 1996 to 2014 ( the last year for which the government data is available ) . Specifically , the observed overestimation is similar in 2014 – a year in which the phone surveys had a nine percent response rate – and 1996 when there was a 37 % response rate . This is evidence that falling response rates are not resulting in dramatically different survey respondents when it comes to voter registration levels .
So far , the growing crisis in Iraq has not drawn strong interest from the American public . As Sunni militants extend their control of large swaths of Iraq , 25 % say they are paying very close attention to the growing violence and political instability in Iraq . By comparison , 28 % of Americans surveyed June 26 - 29 say they followed news about problems with care at veterans ' hospitals very closely and 21 % paid very close attention to news about the IRS losing employee emails . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center conducted among 1,002 adults finds that fewer Americans tracked news about the World Cup soccer tournament in Brazil ( 17 % ) , the 2014 midterms ( 16 % ) and recent Supreme Court rulings ( 15 % ) . ( The survey was conducted before the court 's Hobby Lobby decision . )
Yet on four other items there is no significant difference in values by financial status . Between 52 % and 57 % across all financial categories say stricter environmental laws and regulations are worth the cost . Similarly , virtually identical percentages in all groups say that government regulation of business is necessary to protect the public interest .
Only about a quarter of Brazilians believe that political instability will get better . While the impact of the recent charge against the president and other ongoing investigations remains to be seen , 86 % of Brazilians say political instability is a big problem for their country . Moreover , the public is skeptical that the current state of affairs in Brasília , the capital , will change for the better anytime soon . About four-in-ten Brazilians ( 42 % ) believe the political instability will get worse in the next five years , 29 % say the problem will stay the same and roughly a quarter ( 24 % ) believe the instability will get better .
About half ( 53 % ) of Americans still see cigarette smoking as an extremely or very serious public health problem , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted last November . But the public now sees it as less of a problem than a number of other public health issues like cancer and obesity , and less of a problem than it did in 2004 when 72 % rated it as serious in an ABC News/Time poll .
From Figure 2 , we see that there is little difference among each of our categories between those active in religious or spiritual organizations and those not when a person has been in a locality from 1 to 19 years . However , those active in religious or spiritual organizations are more likely to have lived in a community for 20 years or more , while those who have lived in a community for less than a year are less likely to be active in religious or spiritual organizations .
A new Pew Research Center analysis estimates that around one-in-five adult Twitter users in the U.S. ( 19 % ) follow Trump 's personal account on the platform , @ realDonaldTrump . Trump 's immediate predecessor , Barack Obama ( @ BarackObama ) , is followed by 26 % of U.S. adult Twitter users . Bill Clinton is the only other former president with a public Twitter account , followed by 6 % of adult users . ( George W. Bush has a private account and former president Jimmy Carter does not have a personal Twitter account . )
Views about environmental regulations are more partisan today than they were a decade ago . Roughly six-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners ( 58 % ) said in another 2016 Pew Research Center survey that environmental laws and regulations cost too many jobs and hurt the economy , up from 34 % in 2007 . By comparison , a declining share of Democrats and Democratic leaners hold this view . This partisan gap now stands at 41 percentage points ; in 2007 , it was 10 points .
In the second experiment , all consenting respondents received text message and email invitations to their surveys . Those who had not responded by the third day were randomized into either the treatment group , which received text and email reminders , or the control group , which received only email reminders . Reminders were sent on days 4 , 9 , and 15 of the field period . The respondents who received only email reminders but still answered the survey were younger than the respondents who received both text and email reminders . Of the email-only group , one quarter ( 25 % ) were ages 18 to 29 versus only 15 % of the text and email group . This was unexpected because of the popularity of texting among this age group . One possible explanation is that younger people use text messaging more than older adults , so the text message reminders may have been less novel . There were no other differences in demographics between the two groups of respondents .
As they prepare to meet in a vice-presidential debate on Oct. 7 , both Republican Mike Pence and Democrat Kamala Harris elicit more negative than positive feelings from registered voters , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Around half of registered voters ( 51 % ) give Pence `` cold '' ratings , while slightly more than a third ( 36 % ) give him `` warm '' ratings and 12 % have neutral feelings . For Harris , 48 % express cold feelings , 39 % have warm feelings and 13 % give her neutral ratings , according to the Sept. 30-Oct. 5 survey of 11,929 adults , including 10,543 registered voters . The results are based on a `` feeling thermometer '' in which 100 represents the warmest , most positive score and 0 represents the coldest , most negative rating . Ratings above 50 are considered warm , ratings below 50 are considered cold and ratings of 50 are neutral .
Urban and rural residents see drug addiction as a major problem in their communities . About half of urban ( 50 % ) and rural ( 46 % ) residents say drug addiction is a major problem where they live ( 35 % of suburbanites say the same ) . Across all community types , those without a bachelor 's degree are more likely to see drug addiction as a major local issue .
Across most battleground states , a majority of Black eligible voters live in the top three largest metropolitan areas in the state . In Georgia , Arizona , Pennsylvania , Michigan and Wisconsin , a large majority of Black eligible voters live in each state 's largest metro area . In Ohio , Florida , North Carolina and Iowa , Black eligible voters are more evenly distributed across several metro areas .
The survey , part of a study covering issues involving climate change , energy and the environment , found that about three-in-ten Americans ( 28 % ) say their local community 's social norms strongly encourage recycling and re-use . About a fifth ( 22 % ) say most people in their communities do n't really encourage recycling ; the remaining half live in places where , they say , norms around recycling are somewhere in the middle .
About six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) say that government regulations are necessary to encourage businesses and consumers to rely more on renewable energy sources . Fewer ( 39 % ) think the private marketplace will encourage the use of renewable energy , without the need for government intervention .
More whites favor an active U.S. presence in world affairs than blacks or Hispanics . About half of white Americans ( 49 % ) say its best for the country to be active in world affairs , but just 39 % of Hispanics and 29 % of blacks say the same . More educated Americans are the most supportive of an active U.S. presence on the world stage . A strong majority of those with a postgraduate degree ( 66 % ) say the U.S. should be active globally , compared to 29 % saying it should concentrate on domestic problems . Those who have a four-year college degree are more narrowly divided , but a majority favors an active U.S. global role ( 56 % active vs. 40 % pay less attention ) . Americans who have not completed college tend to favor paying less attention to problems overseas and concentrating here at home . Larger shares of those with some college experience ( 52 % vs. 38 % ) and those with a high school degree or less ( 56 % vs. 39 % ) say we should pay less attention overseas than say it 's best to be active in world affairs . Whites without a college degree are skeptical of an active U.S. presence in world affairs . About half of whites without a college degree ( 51 % ) say the U.S. should pay less attention to problems overseas . Most whites with a college degree take the opposite view ( 64 % say U.S. should be active in world affairs ) ; only a third say we should pay less attention to international problems .
Many Europeans are concerned that the influx of refugees will increase the likelihood of terrorism and impose a burden on their countries . A median of 59 % across 10 EU countries voice concern about the prospect of increased terrorism . This includes 76 % who say this in Hungary and 71 % in Poland . Around six-in-ten in Germany ( 61 % ) , the Netherlands ( 61 % ) and Italy ( 60 % ) also think refugees will increase terrorism in their country . ( The survey was conducted prior to terrorist attacks in France and Germany that occurred over the summer . )
More than 37 million Latinos in the U.S. speak Spanish at home , making it the country 's most common non-English language . But while the number of Latinos who speak Spanish at home continues to increase due to the overall growth of the Latino population , the share of Latinos who speak the language has declined over the past decade or so : 73 % of Latinos spoke Spanish at home in 2015 , down from 78 % in 2006 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . The national decline in Spanish use among Latinos extended to all of the top 25 U.S. metro areas with the largest population of Latinos ages 5 and older . The San Antonio-New Braunfels and Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale metro areas had some of the largest declines , with the shares who spoke Spanish in each declining by 9 percentage points . Some of the smallest declines came in the Washington-Arlington-Alexandria , McAllen-Edinburg-Mission , Sacramento-Roseville-Arden-Arcade and Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach metro areas , where the share who spoke Spanish at home declined by about 2 percentage points each from 2006 to 2015 . ( Click here for a sortable table of Spanish use by metro area . )
The executive actions build on 2012 's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals ( DACA ) , which granted relief to young adults who came to the U.S. as children . This program has resulted in nearly 700,000 people receiving relief , though advocates said the action did not go far enough .
Pluralities across age groups say the growing variety of family living arrangements does n't make a difference . But adults ages 65 and older are less likely than those in younger age groups to see it as a good thing . One-in-five adults 65 and older say this is a good thing , compared with 29 % of those ages 50 to 64 , 33 % of those 30 to 49 and 34 % of those 18 to 29 .
Many Europeans are dissatisfied with the way democracy is working , but there is considerable variation by country . Those living in Sweden are the most positive about the state of democracy in their country ( 72 % satisfied ) . Majorities in the Netherlands , Poland , Germany , Lithuania and the Czech Republic are also satisfied . On the other hand , roughly two-thirds or more in Greece , Bulgaria , the UK , Italy and Spain are not satisfied with the state of democracy in their country . Russians and Ukrainians are also less than happy with how democracy is working in their respective countries .
Young adults who would like to get married naturally start looking for love in the community they live in , but in some parts of the country , the odds may be against them . A new Pew Research Center analysis finds pronounced differences in the ratio between men and women living in the largest U.S. metro areas , especially when it comes to singles who have an attractive characteristic : a job . Nationwide , single young men outnumber their female counterparts . The overall male-to-female ratio is 115:100 among single adults ages 25 to 34 . But when we limit the young men to those who are currently employed , the ratio falls to 84 employed single men for every 100 single women . ( We count both young adults who have never been married and those who have been previously married as single or unmarried . ) So , which large metro areas have the best `` marriage market '' ? For women seeking a male partner with a job , our analysis found that San Jose , Calif. , tops the list among large metro areas , with 114 single employed men for every 100 single women . Among all single young adults , there were 141 men for every 100 women in this area . Over half ( 57 % ) of young adults ages 25 to 34 in the metro area , which includes Sunnyvale and Santa Clara , were single in 2012 .
Since January there has been a decline in the percentage saying the government 's anti-terrorism policies have not gone far enough in protecting the country . At that time , shortly after the failed Christmas Day attack on an airliner , 58 % said the government had not gone far enough in protecting the country , more than double the percentage saying it had gone too far in restricting civil liberties ( 27 % ) . Just two months earlier , in November 2009 , 40 % said the government had not gone far enough in national security , while nearly as many ( 36 % ) said it gone too far in restricting civil liberties .
These differences starkly frame a key set of disputes in the presidential election . Fully 56 % of Clinton supporters say they care a great deal about the issue of global climate change . An additional 34 % say they care some .
But while the public supported civil rights legislation conceptually , they expressed concerns about the pace of its implementation . Indeed , although most supported the new civil rights law soon after it was passed , a national Opinion Research Corporation poll showed 68 % of Americans wanting to see moderation in its enforcement , with only 19 % wanting vigorous enforcement of the new law .
The Affordable Care Act has drawn mixed reviews from the U.S. public since it became law in 2010 , and a new Pew Research Center survey finds that Americans remain split in their opinions about the law and its future . But while President-elect Donald Trump has vowed to repeal the health care law , individual provisions are broadly popular , even across partisan lines . Overall , Americans are evenly divided in their views of the ACA : 48 % approve of it while 47 % disapprove , according to the survey , conducted Nov. 30 to Dec. 5 . Views of the law remain largely divided by party , as they have been since 2009 , even before the law was enacted . Today about three-quarters ( 73 % ) of Democrats approve of the law , while 85 % of Republicans disapprove . Independents are roughly as likely to approve ( 52 % ) as disapprove ( 45 % ) , though independent views of the law have grown more positive in the wake of the election .
The makeup of the Hispanic population varies widely across major metropolitan areas . Mexicans comprise more than two-in-three Hispanics in the Los Angeles and Houston metro areas , reflecting their majority share among the national Hispanic population . But in many other metro areas , other origin groups make up the largest share among Hispanics . Puerto Ricans are the largest group in the Orlando , Florida , metro area , while Salvadorans are the largest in the Washington , D.C. , metro area . Cubans are the largest origin group in the Miami metro area .
Gauging digital audience for the entire newspaper industry is difficult since many daily newspapers do not receive enough traffic to their websites to be measured by Comscore , the data source relied on here . Thus , the figures offered above reflect the top 50 U.S. daily newspapers based on circulation . In the fourth quarter of 2018 , there was an average of 11.6 million monthly unique visitors ( across all devices ) for these top 50 newspapers . This is nearly the same as in Q4 2017 ( 11.5 million ) and 2016 ( 11.7 million ) ; following two years of growth from 2014 to 2016 , newspapers ' website traffic has leveled off . ( The list of top 50 papers is based on Sunday circulation but also includes The Wall Street Journal , which does not report Sunday circulation to AAM . It also includes The Washington Post and The New York Times , which make the top 50 even though they do not fully report their digital circulation to AAM . For more details and the full list of newspapers , see our methodology . )
These are some of the findings from a new pair of surveys conducted by the Pew Research Center in collaboration with the AAAS . The survey of the general public was conducted by landline and cellular telephone August 15 - 25 , 2014 with a representative sample of 2,002 adults nationwide . The margin of sampling error for results based on all adults is plus or minus 3.1 percentage points . The survey of scientists is based on a representative sample of 3,748 U.S.-based members of AAAS ; the survey was conducted online from Sept. 11 to Oct. 13 , 2014 . The largest differences between the public and the AAAS scientists are found in beliefs about the safety of eating genetically modified ( GM ) foods . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) scientists say it is generally safe to eat GM foods compared with 37 % of the general public , a difference of 51 percentage points . One possible reason for the gap : when it comes to GM crops , two-thirds of the public ( 67 % ) say scientists do not have a clear understanding about the health effects .
Fewer Americans voice confidence in Xi than say the same of leaders from other Asian nations , including Japan 's Shinzo Abe ( 61 % confidence ) and India 's Narendra Modi ( 42 % ) . However , many more think Xi will do the right thing regarding world affairs than North Korean leader Kim Jong Un , in whom a mere 9 % of Americans have confidence .
Following the Great Recession , the U.S. unemployment rate declined from a near record high level ( 9.5 % ) in the second quarter of 2010 to a near-record low ( 3.5 % ) in the second quarter of 2019 ( figures are non-seasonally adjusted ) . Despite the downward trend in unemployment , the recovery in other labor market indicators has been anemic to absent in the post-Great Recession era . For example , the U.S. employment rate in 2019 is several percentage points lower than it was at the start of the Great Recession in 2007 , primarily because of the aging U.S. population .
Four-in-ten ( 41 % ) Twitter users who are very interested in politics say that at least half of the posts that they see are political . This compares with about a quarter ( 26 % ) of highly politically-interested Facebook users who say the same . Conversely , roughly a third ( 34 % ) of Twitter users not interested in politics say they do n't see any political posts in their feed , compared with about half that amount ( 18 % ) of Facebook users who are uninterested in the subject . There could be a number of elements at play . For one , as apparent to those familiar with both sites , the nature of each platform is different in terms of who people choose to connect with and how algorithms , particularly for Facebook , affect what people see in their feed . Also , people could be using the two sites for different purposes : Facebook users could be using the platform for a wider array of social and informational activities than Twitter users . But either way , on Twitter , those who are interested in politics see a greater portion of this type of content than their brethren on Facebook , and the politically uninterested are more likely to filter it out .
Independence Day is a national celebration of freedom , fireworks , family , friends and frankfurters . It 's also , by one measure , the most dangerous day of the year . On average , more than 45,000 people visit U.S. hospital emergency rooms for treatment of injuries on July 4 and 5 – nearly 91,000 in total , by far the highest daily numbers in the entire year . By comparison , the average daily number of injury-related ER visits over the summer months ( June , July and August ) is about 40,700 . The holidays that bookend summer have somewhat higher averages – about 41,900 for the last week in May , covering Memorial Day weekend , and 42,200 for the first week of September , which typically includes Labor Day weekend – but even they are well below Independence Day . The biggest reason for the Fourth of July spike in injury-related ER visits ? No surprise : fireworks . On average , more than half of all the fireworks-related injuries Americans sustain each year occur during the first eight days of July – a total of nearly 4,900 last year .
The United States is home to world 's largest immigrant population ( 41 million ) , and is by far the largest economy of any nation surveyed , but views of immigrants are mixed . Half ( 51 % ) of Americans this year said immigrants make the U.S. stronger because of their hard work and talents . Meanwhile , 41 % said immigrants are a burden because they take jobs , housing and health care . American attitudes toward immigrants are more positive today than they were in 1994 , when just 31 % of Americans said they 're a strength and twice as many – 63 % – called immigrants a burden . Germany is Europe 's economic engine and its most populous nation . It is also home to 6 million immigrants born outside of the EU , the most of any EU country . Attitudes toward immigrants are even more positive there than in the U.S . In 2014 , two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Germans said immigrants are a strength because of their hard work and talents , while just 29 % said immigrants are a burden because they take jobs and social benefits .
Employment at online news outlets is especially concentrated in the Northeast . About four-in-ten newsroom employees who work in internet publishing live in the Northeast ( 41 % ) . Another 28 % live in the West .
Both the public and the media focused heavily on the January shootings in Tucson that left six dead and Rep. Gabrielle Giffords severely injured . Public interest stayed relatively high on this story , though coverage fell off more quickly as the media moved on to other developing stories — especially the growing unrest in the Middle East . After Mubarak resigned , two new stories competed for media and public attention — the protests in Wisconsin over a plan to scale back the collective bargaining rights of public workers and the worsening unrest in Libya .
When it comes to the economy , the public sees little change in the tenor of recent news . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , matching the numbers from early April and early March . Public views about the mix of economic news have changed little since the start of 2010 . Currently , 66 % say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , about the same as the 65 % recorded Jan. 8 - 11 . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they are hearing mostly bad news , while 4 % say they are hearing mostly good news . Those numbers also are little changed this year .
For people who do have online access , social networking is popular nearly everywhere , but especially in the emerging world . For example , nearly nine-in-ten online Jordanians , Indonesians , Filipinos and Venezuelans report using social networks . This compares with only 57 % of online French , 54 % of online South Koreans and half of online Germans . This also means that among internet users , social networking is more popular in the Middle East and Latin America than it is in the U.S. and Europe . Internet access is strongly tied to per-capita national income . Richer countries in the survey tend to have higher rates of internet access or smartphone ownership compared with poorer nations . This also holds true when emerging and developing nations are compared with each other . While there is a strong correlation in this relationship , as middle-income countries approach total internet saturation it is likely that this association will diminish .
Though coverage of the health care debate was down last week to 5 % of the newshole according to PEJ , 42 % of the public say they continued to follow developments on this story very closely ; 29 % say this was the story they followed most closely . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they followed the killings of four police officers in Washington state very closely , while 7 % say this was the story they followed most closely . The story accounted for 4 % of the newshole . According to PEJ , the Tiger Woods story and the story about the couple who attended the White House state dinner without an invitation each took up about 6 % of the newshole . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed the Woods story very closely , while 16 % say they followed the Salahi story very closely . But 10 % say the Woods story was the story they followed most closely , compared with 4 % who say the same of the Salahi story .
Of the seven leaders tested in the survey , Americans have the lowest levels of confidence in Russian President Vladimir Putin , with about one-in-five ( 21 % ) saying he will do the right thing in world affairs . Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi receive equivalent ratings : About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) in the U.S. have confidence in each . Americans have generally lacked confidence in Putin in surveys conducted over the past 15 years , but their opinions have been especially low since Russia 's 2014 annexation of Crimea . That year , only 16 % had confidence in Putin . All interviews were conducted after Putin 's March 2014 statement that Russia would annex Crimea . In each year since then , around one-in-five Americans have reported confidence in Putin .
After decades of declining marriage rates and changes in family structure , the share of American adults who have never been married is at an historic high . In 2012 , one-in-five adults ages 25 and older had never been married . Men are more likely than women to have never been married . And this gender gap has widened since 1960 .
This month Texas joined 12 other states , mainly in the South and Midwest , that have banned abortions at no later than 22 weeks of pregnancy . ( The new Texas law bans abortions at 20 weeks . Some of these other laws are temporarily blocked by court injunction . ) In polling conducted in 2012 and 2013 , about half ( 49 % ) of the residents of these 13 states believe abortion should be illegal in all or most cases . By comparison , in the other 37 states and the District of Columbia , just 36 % agree , while 58 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases .
Modi remains by far the most popular national figure in Indian politics tested in the survey . His favorable rating is 31 percentage points higher than that of Sonia Gandhi , the leader of the Congress party , and is 30 points more than that for Rahul Gandhi , who led the Congress ticket in the last Lok Sabha election .
This stands in sharp contrast to older voters . Fully 76 % of voters 30 and older were white , down only six points from 2000 . Only 24 % of voters 30 and older were nonwhite , including 12 % who identified as black and 8 % as Hispanic .
However , nearly eight-in-ten in Denmark ( 78 % ) express skepticism that more international cooperation would have led to fewer coronavirus cases in their country . Clear majorities in Australia ( 59 % ) and Germany ( 56 % ) say the same . In these same countries , roughly nine-in-ten or more say their own government handled the coronavirus outbreak well .
Obama continues to be a factor – a negative factor , on balance – for many voters . Currently , 32 % of registered voters say they think of their vote for Congress as a vote against Obama , while 20 % see it as a vote for Obama ; 45 % of voters say Obama will not be a factor in their decision .
On the other side of the ledger , majorities in 19 of the 24 countries had little or no confidence in the American president . In the four Western European countries surveyed , majorities without much confidence ranged from 81 % in Britain to 88 % in Spain . In the Middle East , majorities rose as high as 89 % in Turkey and Jordan . Since 2003 , confidence in Bush has fallen in eight of the 14 foreign countries where trend data are available . In the remaining six countries confidence has remained relatively low .
In a two-party system , it is not surprising that most Americans view their own party favorably while viewing the opposing party unfavorably . Two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) view one party favorably while expressing an unfavorable opinion of the other party . About one-in-five ( 17 % ) feel unfavorably toward both parties , while 12 % feel favorably toward both .
In the new survey , uncertainty about COVID-19 's impact on most news organizations ' finances is one area that crosses partisan and ideological lines . About one-third of all Democrats ( 34 % ) and Republicans ( 32 % ) , including liberal Democrats ( 37 % ) and conservative Republicans ( 34 % ) , say they are not sure of the impact .
Support for the Pakistani government 's military campaign against extremist groups has waned in recent years . Just 37 % support using the Pakistani army to fight extremists in the country 's Federally Administered Tribal Areas ( FATA ) and the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region ( formerly the North-West Frontier Province ) . This level is significantly lower than it was two years ago , when , in a survey taken following conflict between government forces and Taliban-affiliated groups in the Swat Valley area , 53 % endorsed using the army to battle these organizations .
In addition to their concerns about the impact of mobile phones on children , majorities across the 11 countries surveyed also say people should also be very worried about issues such as identity theft ( an 11-country median of 66 % say people should be very concerned about this ) , exposure to false information ( 64 % ) , mobile phone addiction ( 62 % ) and harassment or bullying ( 59 % ) when using their mobile phones . Fewer are very concerned about the risk that people might lose the ability to communicate face-to-face due to mobile phone use ( 48 % ) .
In much of Eastern Europe , there is now greater acceptance of post-communist political changes compared with Pulse of Europe surveys conducted by the then-Times Mirror Center for the People & the Press in 1991 , as the Soviet Union was collapsing . Even so , the legacy of communism is apparent in the attitudes of many Eastern European publics . Only about half of those in Ukraine and Russia approve of the political changes that have occurred since the collapse of the Soviet Union .
Issues related to the ongoing drug war top the Mexican public 's list of concerns . Three-in-four say cartel-related violence is a very big problem for the country , while a roughly equal number say the same about human rights violations by the military and police . And 73 % name crime as a very big problem .
Nearly nine-in-ten Republicans who make $ 75,000 or more ( 88 % ) now rate economic conditions as excellent or good – including 45 % who say the economy is in excellent shape . By comparison , only about half of Republicans with incomes of less than $ 30,000 ( 54 % ) rate economic conditions positively . The income gap in perceptions of the economy among Republicans has grown considerably in recent years : In the fall of 2016 , there were only modest differences in GOP ratings of the economy across income groups . Among Democrats , the income gap in economic perceptions is more modest : About four-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more ( 39 % ) say the economy is excellent or good ; 26 % of Democrats who make less than $ 30,000 say the same .
Of the three states surveyed , Clinton 's lead over her competitors is widest in New Hampshire . Among likely Democratic primary voters , twice as many back Clinton ( 38 % ) as Obama ( 19 % ) , followed by John Edwards at 15 % and Bill Richardson at 10 % . No other candidate is supported by more than 4 % .
Multiracial adults see themselves as more open to other cultures and more understanding of people of different backgrounds . Around six-in-ten multiracial Americans ( 59 % ) said their multiracial background has made them more open to cultures other than their own , and 55 % felt that they were more understanding of people of different racial backgrounds . Still , relatively few ( 19 % ) said they had felt like they were a go-between or `` bridge '' between different racial groups .
One factor that has driven the interest of media companies in making big investments in local television is political ad spending , which after the Supreme Court 's Citizens United ruling seems to guarantee windfalls to local TV stations in even-numbered years . In the third quarter , local TV station groups saw positive results tied to an influx of political advertising dollars . From January to mid-October 2014 , total political ad spending for local TV was about $ 1.3 billion , according to a Television Bureau of Advertising ( TVB ) analysis of Kantar CMAG data . Seven of the 12 companies report political advertising revenue separately from other types of revenue . For this group , political advertising in 2014 was more than eight times higher than the year before and the share of political advertising out of the total revenues rose to 8 % in 2014 compared to just 1 % in 2013 . Media General enjoyed the strongest boost in the group , with an increase of more than 1,400 % . Still , LIN Media 's political advertising revenues , which saw the smallest growth , were up 360 % . Moreover , the group 's political advertising revenues rose 77 % since the last midterm elections in 2010 .
Looking at specific occupations , an estimated 63 % of `` miscellaneous personal appearance workers '' ( a category that includes manicurists and pedicurists , makeup artists , shampooers and skin care specialists ) are immigrants , the highest share of any occupation . Immigrants account for about 60 % of graders and sorters of agricultural products as well as plasterers and stucco masons , 55 % of sewing machine operators , and about half of maids and housekeepers , tailors and dressmakers , and miscellaneous agricultural workers .
Death may not be the most comfortable topic to ponder , but 37 % of Americans say they have given a great deal of thought to their own wishes for end-of-life medical treatment – up from 28 % in 1990 . A third ( 35 % ) say they have put their wishes in writing . At the same time , however , about a quarter ( 27 % ) say they 've given no thought or not very much thought to their wishes .
South Korea has seen a steep decline in favorable views of the U.S. since last year , but it is the only country surveyed where a majority still holds a positive opinion . At the same time , trust in the U.S. president has dropped substantially . South Koreans ' confidence in Trump more than doubled from 2017 to 2018 and remained at that level in 2019 . That year , 78 % of Koreans approved of Trump 's policy to negotiate with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un about the country 's nuclear weapons program . Current ratings are back to their 2017 low : Only 17 % believe Trump would do the right thing regarding world affairs .
Fully 78 % say that while the news from Egypt is important , `` there are issues in the United States that concern me more . '' And a majority ( 55 % ) says they feel they lack the background information to really know what is going on there . These opinions are little changed from two years ago , when public interest in Egypt news was substantially higher .
Political conversations highlight differences , but most think it 's still possible to agree on nonpolitical topics . Roughly half of Republicans ( 50 % ) and Democrats ( 46 % ) say talking about politics with people they disagree with is generally `` stressful and frustrating , '' rather than `` interesting and informative . ''
Some 65 % of adults say humans have evolved over time and 31 % say humans have always existed in their present form . By comparison , fully 98 % of AAAS scientists say humans and other living things have evolved over time . Among the general public , those more likely to say humans have existed in their present form since the beginning include : women , African-Americans , older adults , and those who do not have college degrees . Beliefs about evolution among the general public also vary by religious group with white evangelical Protestants especially likely to say that humans have existed in their present form since the beginning .
Worries about extremism are higher across the Western countries surveyed than they are in the Muslim countries surveyed . Overall , a median of 52 % across nine Western nations are very concerned about Islamic extremism . Across the 10 countries with Muslim populations of around half or more ( including Middle Eastern , Asian and African nations ) , the median who are very concerned is 42 % . Nevertheless , roughly half or more of people across all the countries surveyed say they are at least somewhat concerned about Islamic extremism in their country . People in Israel ( 37 % very concerned ) and Russia ( 23 % ) are less concerned about extremism than those in many of the other countries surveyed . But this has not always been the case in Russia , where great concern about extremism is down 12 percentage points since 2011 and 29 points since 2005 , when the survey was fielded just months after 334 hostages died in a school in Beslan that was taken over by Chechen rebels .
Trump 's restrictions on immigration are more popular among those who support right-wing populist parties in Europe . When asked whether they approve of Trump 's policy to allow fewer immigrants in the U.S. , people who support National Rally in France , Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) in Germany and Sweden Democrats in Sweden are at least 40 percentage points more likely than nonsupporters to express approval . This stark difference between populist supporters and non-populist supporters appears in many European countries and extends to opinions about Trump himself , as well as to his policy of building a wall between the U.S. and Mexico .
One-in-seven U.S. infants ( 14 % ) were multiracial or multiethnic in 2015 , nearly triple the share in 1980 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . This increase comes nearly a half century after the landmark Supreme Court case Loving v. Virginia legalized interracial marriage .
Interest in the 2008 presidential campaign remained steady last week : 21 % of the public followed campaign news very closely and 12 % listed this as their most closely followed story . As has been the case throughout most of the year , Democrats paid closer attention to the campaign than did Republicans . This past week , the gap was particularly large with 30 % of Democrats and 13 % of Republicans paying very close attention to campaign news .
As Barack Obama arrives in the Middle East this week , the sympathies of the American public remain firmly with Israel in its dispute with the Palestinians . And when it comes to Iran , the public continues to say it is more important to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons than to avoid a military conflict . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted March 13 - 17 among 1,501 adults , finds that 49 % say they sympathize more with Israel , while just 12 % sympathize more with the Palestinians and the same percentage ( 12 % ) volunteers that they sympathize with neither side . In the current survey , 66 % of Republicans say they sympathize more with Israel than the Palestinians , compared with 49 % of independents and 39 % of Democrats . In the 1978 survey , conducted by the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations , 49 % of Republicans , 45 % of independents and 44 % of Democrats sympathized more with Israel than the Palestinians .
The Northeast , home to several of the most traveled transit systems in the country , has the largest share of adults by region ( 25 % ) who use public transportation on a regular basis ( daily or weekly ) . City dwellers are also more frequent users of mass transit . Some 21 % of urban residents use public transit on a regular basis , compared with 6 % of suburban residents and just 3 % of rural residents .
According to our analysis , the 2018 election cycle saw the second-highest number of voluntary departures from the House ( that is , members retiring , resigning or pursuing some other office ) since the early 1990s , with 58 representatives ( 39 Republicans and 19 Democrats ) not running for reelection . Of those 58 , 31 retired outright , 21 left to run for some other office , and six resigned without being replaced in a special election . ( This time around , four other House seats besides Hunter 's are currently vacant due to resignation or death , but they are scheduled to be filled by special elections . Since the winners of those four special elections presumably will seek full terms this November as incumbents , we did n't include them in our count . )
Democrats remain far more likely than Republicans to say the outbreak is a major threat to public health : 84 % of Democrats and those who lean toward the Democratic Party say this , compared with 43 % of Republicans and Republican leaners . The partisan gap on this question remains about as wide as it has been at any point during the outbreak .
Just over two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they followed events in Iraq very closely , while 7 % say they followed this news more closely than any other major story . News about Iraq and the most recent elections there accounted for 3 % of the newshole .
The scholars surveyed differ from the American general public when measuring how various countries and multilateral institutions have handled the coronavirus outbreak . For example , more experts give China high marks for its handling of the pandemic , with 61 % saying China did a good job compared with only 31 % of the American public saying the same . Across 14 countries , a similarly low median of 37 % say China has done a good job of handling COVID-19 . In evaluating the U.S. response , only 3 % of the scholars say the U.S. has done a good job of containing the outbreak compared with 47 % of Americans who say the same . On this measure , IR scholars are more closely aligned with the view across all 14 nations , who generally see the U.S. response to the virus as poor .
Blacks and Hispanics are especially likely to view online harassment as a pressing issue . For instance , larger shares of blacks ( 74 % ) and Hispanics ( 72 % ) than whites ( 57 % ) consider online harassment to be a `` major problem . '' Blacks are also more likely to say it is more important for people to feel safe and welcome online than to be able to speak their minds freely ( 68 % vs. 31 % ) . Whites are more evenly divided on this question ( 51 % vs. 48 % ) , as are Hispanics ( 52 % vs. 46 % ) .
Since 1960 , the nation 's Latino population has increased nearly ninefold , from 6.3 million then to 56.5 million by 2015 . It is projected to grow to 107 million by 2065 , according to the latest Pew Research Center projections . The foreign-born Latino population has increased to nearly 20 times its size over the past half century , from less than 1 million in 1960 to 19.4 million in 2015 . On the other hand , while the U.S.-born Latino population has only increased sixfold over this time period , there are about 32 million more U.S.-born Latinos in the U.S. today ( 37.1 million ) than there were in 1960 ( 5.5 million ) .
It was five years ago this month when the financial crisis , which had been steadily worsening for months , reached critical mass and exploded with a force that , for a while , threatened to take down the entire global economy . But a lot has happened since then , and who can remember all the details ? Was it Bear Stearns or Lehman Brothers that collapsed first ? Was n't TARP enacted under President Obama ? And what did TARP stand for anyway ?
Short-term residents have more education than long-term residents , and the gap between these immigrant groups has widened . Almost half ( 47 % ) of immigrants ages 25 and older who arrived in the U.S. during the previous five years have a bachelor 's degree or more as of 2017 , compared with just 28 % of those who have lived in the country for more than 10 years . The share among newer arrivals has grown since 2010 , when 36 % had a college degree , compared with 25 % of longer-tenured immigrants . Overall , the education levels of U.S. immigrants have increased , due in part to growing numbers of international students and highly skilled workers . By contrast , 32 % of the U.S.-born population has a bachelor 's degree or higher .
Views of Chinese President Xi Jinping are , on balance , negative across the 34 countries surveyed . A median of 45 % say they lack confidence in him when it comes to world affairs , compared with a median of 29 % who say they trust him to do the right thing . But opinions vary widely across regions . In the U.S. , Canada and Western Europe , half or more in almost all countries say they have no confidence in Xi , whereas confidence is much higher in all three sub-Saharan African countries surveyed and tends to be higher in several of the Middle East and North African countries surveyed . In the six Asia-Pacific countries surveyed , most have little confidence in Xi Jinping when it comes to world affairs . Just 29 % have confidence in him to do what is right , which falls far short of the ratings for Japan 's Shinzo or India 's Narendra Modi . And in the Philippines , Indonesia , India and South Korea , nearly equal numbers have confidence in North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as in Xi .
Among Democrats and those who lean toward the Democratic Party who are single but looking for a relationship , about seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say they probably or definitely would not consider being in a committed relationship with someone who voted for Donald Trump . In fact , 45 % say they definitely would not consider seriously dating a Trump voter .
What 's behind these changes ? On the one hand , the demographics of the state 's Hispanic population are growing more diverse . In 2014 , Cubans made up a smaller share ( 31 % ) of Hispanic eligible voters – adult U.S. citizens – in Florida than they did in 1990 ( 46 % ) . Meanwhile , over the same period , Puerto Ricans made up a larger share of the state 's Hispanic eligible voters , rising from 25 % to 27 % . These changes have been driven by the outmigration of Puerto Ricans from the island to central Florida and the movement of Puerto Rican-origin Hispanics in the northeast U.S. to central Florida . The share of Hispanic eligible voters of other ancestry ( such as Mexico and South America ) has also increased , from 29 % then to 42 % today .
Democrats and Republicans also differ over so-called `` no excuse '' absentee or early voting , according to a separate survey conducted in June . Overall , 65 % of U.S. adults said voters should be allowed to vote early or absentee without a documented reason , but Democrats were nearly twice as likely as Republicans to hold this view ( 83 % vs. 44 % ) . Among the one-third of Americans who said early or absentee voting should be allowed only with a documented reason , Republicans were much more likely than Democrats to say COVID-19 should not be considered a valid reason .
Against this backdrop , extremist groups , including al Qaeda , garner little popular support . Even before his death in 2011 , confidence in al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden had plummeted among many Muslims . Today , al Qaeda is widely reviled , with a median of 57 % across the 11 Muslims publics surveyed saying they have an unfavorable opinion of the terrorist organization that launched the twin attacks on New York City and Washington , DC more than a decade ago . The Taliban , who once shared Afghanistan as a base of operation with al Qaeda , are viewed negatively by a median of 51 % of Muslims in the countries polled . Hezbollah and Hamas fare little better . Hezbollah , in particular , has seen its support slip in key Middle Eastern countries , including a 38 percentage point drop in favorable views among Egyptian Muslims since 2007 .
The ‘ Clinton factor . ' At this early stage in the campaign , few people seem bothered by the Clinton family 's long involvement in Democratic politics , or by Hillary Clinton 's role in her husband 's administration . Asked in the current survey about the large role the Clinton family continues to play in the Democratic Party , just 11 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independent voters say they are bothered by this , while 88 % say it does not really bother them .
In a new Pew Research Center survey , nearly six-in-ten women ( 58 % ) say they prefer a bigger government providing more services to a smaller government providing fewer services ( 36 % ) . Among men , the balance of opinion is nearly the reverse : 59 % of men prefer a smaller government ( 37 % prefer bigger ) .
Terrorism and global threats : Defending against terrorism continues to rank among the public 's leading priorities for the president and Congress , with nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) saying it is a top priority .
Majorities across all demographic groups consider the internet at least important during this time , but there are some distinctions on whether they have found it be essential . Roughly two-thirds of adults under the age of 50 say the internet has been essential for them during the outbreak , compared with 49 % of adults ages 50 to 64 and 31 % of adults age 65 and older . There are also some differences by education level . Some 65 % of college graduates say the internet has been essential during the outbreak , compared with 52 % of adults with some college education and 42 % of those with a high school education or less . Upper-income adults , Hispanics , and urban or suburban residents are also particularly likely to describe the internet as essential for them during the coronavirus outbreak .
And even as the mood in Europe brightens , the euro crisis has left a challenging political legacy : the rise of Eurosceptic political parties on both the left and the right . When asked about leading nontraditional political parties , half or more of the publics in four of the six EU nations surveyed believe that these parties are good for their country because they raise important issues that are ignored by traditional parties . This is especially true in France , where among those who say the Eurosceptic party National Front is a good thing , people have a more negative view of the EU and think the European project has weakened France .
The Postal Service also has been trying to reduce its physical footprint , despite resistance from communities and , often , their representatives in Congress . The total number of Postal Service facilities has fallen 9.3 % over the past two decades , from more than 38,000 nationwide in 1999 to around 34,600 as of Sept. 30 . However , the number of individual mailboxes , P.O . boxes , and other `` delivery points '' – currently 159.9 million – typically grows by 1 million or more each year , adding to the Postal Service 's challenges .
More than one-in-ten ( 13 % ) say they followed the discussions in Washington over whether to raise the debt limit more closely than any other major story . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed these developments very closely . In mid-June , 24 % said they were following the debate over whether to raise the federal debt limit very closely . One-in-ten ( 10 % ) say news about the situation in Afghanistan was their top story ; 22 % say they followed news about Afghanistan very closely . This news accounted for 5 % of coverage . Smaller numbers cite the financial crisis and protests in Greece ( 4 % ) or the Supreme Court ruling that overturned a California ban on selling violent videogames to minors ( 3 % ) as their top story . Just 14 % say they followed news about the Greek protests very closely , while 13 % say they followed news about the court ruling this closely . Two weeks ago , the same number said they were following the court 's decision dismissing a class action lawsuit against Wal-Mart very closely . The protests in Greece made up 3 % of coverage , while the Supreme Court ruling accounted for 2 % .
Republicans and GOP-leaning independents who rely most on President Donald Trump and his coronavirus task force for news about COVID-19 – one of 10 news sources the Center asked about – stand out in several ways in their attitudes about the outbreak . For example , 89 % of Republicans in this group say the U.S. has controlled the outbreak as much as it could have , compared with 59 % of Republicans who do n't rely most on Trump and the task force . Republicans who turn to Trump for coronavirus news are also more likely than other Republicans to say the pandemic has been overblown , that Trump is getting the facts about the outbreak right and that public health organizations are not getting the facts right , according to the survey , conducted Aug. 31-Sept. 7 as part of the Center 's American News Pathways project . The poll was fielded before Trump tested positive for the virus and was hospitalized .
Of all U.S. advertising revenue , 28 % comes from digital ads . For most legacy news sectors , digital ad revenue represents a much smaller fraction of their total intake , despite years of experimentation . Just 4 % of local TV advertising revenue comes from digital , according to estimates from market research firm BIA/Kelsey , and this is not projected to grow much over the next five years . Newspapers see about 18 % of their total ad revenue from digital , according to BIA/Kelsey , and this does not at present make up for falling print revenue . Even for digital-native news organizations , high levels of digital revenue are no guarantee of profitability .
Just 22 % approve of the job performance of Republican congressional leaders , down from 36 % in February . Ratings for Democratic leaders are only somewhat better ( 29 % approve ) . More generally , the Republican Party 's favorable rating has declined from 43 % in early February to 34 % currently . At 43 % , the Democratic Party is viewed more favorably than the GOP , but it too was rated a bit better earlier in the year ( 47 % in February ) .
Highly educated adults – particularly those who have attended graduate school – are far more likely than those with less education to take predominantly liberal positions across a range of political values . And these differences have increased over the past two decades . More than half of those with postgraduate experience ( 54 % ) have either consistently liberal political values ( 31 % ) or mostly liberal values ( 23 % ) , based on an analysis of their opinions about the role and performance of government , social issues , the environment and other topics . Fewer than half as many postgrads – roughly 12 % of the public in 2015– have either consistently conservative ( 10 % ) or mostly conservative ( 14 % ) values . About one-in-five ( 22 % ) express a mix of liberal and conservative opinions . Among adults who have completed college but have not attended graduate school ( approximately 16 % of the public ) , 44 % have consistently or mostly liberal political values , while 29 % have at least mostly conservative values ; 27 % have mixed ideological views . By contrast , among the majority of adults who do not have a college degree ( 72 % of the public in 2015 ) , far fewer express liberal opinions . About a third of those who have some college experience but do not have a bachelor 's degree ( 36 % ) have consistently liberal or mostly liberal political values , as do just 26 % of those with no more than a high school degree . Roughly a quarter in each of these groups ( 28 % of those with some college experience , 26 % of those with no more than a high school education ) have consistently conservative or mostly conservative values .
Some 86 % of internet users have taken steps online to remove or mask their digital footprints , but many say they would like to do more or are unaware of tools they could use . The actions that users have taken range from clearing cookies to encrypting their email , from avoiding using their name to using virtual networks that mask their internet protocol ( IP ) address . And 55 % of internet users have taken steps to avoid observation by specific people , organizations or the government . Many say the purpose of their attempted anonymity is to avoid `` social surveillance '' by friends and colleagues , rather than the government or law enforcement .
Though each of these potential enhancements raises unique social and ethical implications , the public 's views about the three enhancements have similar contours . Technologies that would bring more dramatic or extreme changes to human abilities are generally less acceptable to the American public than are technologies that cause less dramatic or temporary changes . For example , 47 % of Americans consider the use of synthetic blood substitutes to improve physical abilities an `` appropriate use of technology '' if the resulting change to people 's speed , strength and stamina would be `` equal to their own peak abilities . '' But if the same enhancement results in physical abilities `` far above that of any human known to date , '' far fewer ( 28 % ) say it would be an appropriate use of technology .
A 47-nation 2007 Pew Global Attitudes survey found that , among the seven major world regions included in the study , support for free markets was lowest in Eastern Europe and Latin America . Across the six Eastern European countries surveyed — Bulgaria , Czech Republic , Poland , Russia , Slovakia and Ukraine — a median of 56 % agreed with the statement `` Most people are better off in a free market economy , even though some people are rich and some are poor . '' While support for free-market economics tends to be lower in Eastern Europe than in other parts of the globe , it is not uniformly low in the region . For example , in the 2007 survey , 68 % of Poles endorsed free markets , up from 44 % in 2002 . In 2007 , roughly two-thirds ( 66 % ) backed free markets in Ukraine , a nation that has enjoyed rapid economic growth over the last few years . However , the Ukrainian economy has suffered severely in recent months , forcing the country to seek emergency funds from the IMF .
By two-to-one , Americans now say that they are more concerned that the government 's anti-terror policies have not gone far enough to protect the country ( 56 % ) , rather than that these policies have gone too far in restricting the average person 's civil liberties ( 28 % ) . Since the start of the year , there has been a seven percentage-point rise in the share expressing concern that these policies have not gone far enough .
Despite consistently high interest and the large percentage of Americans who say the issue affects them personally , the public continues to find the health care debate difficult to grasp . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) say health care reform is hard to understand , not much different from the 66 % that said the same in early October . In the current survey , 29 % say the issue is easy to understand , compared with 33 % in the Oct. 2 - 5 survey .
Turks generally have negative opinions of major Western countries , especially the United States . Only 12 % of Turks have a favorable view of the U.S. , down from 30 % two years ago . American foreign policy is extremely unpopular — 70 % say the Iraq war , which Turkey fears will further embolden its own Kurdish minority , has made the world more dangerous and 77 % oppose the U.S.-led war on terrorism . However , France does not fare much better — 61 % say they have an unfavorable view of France , while only 18 % hold a favorable opinion . Germany , home to a large number of Turkish immigrants , receives somewhat more positive marks , with Turks divided between those with favorable ( 43 % ) and unfavorable ( 41 % ) opinions .
Fewer than half of Latinos say they are confident that police officers in their community treat Hispanics fairly . According to the 2008 National Survey of Latinos , 45 % of Latinos said they had a great deal or fair amount of confidence that police officers in their communities would treat Latinos fairly . This is lower than the share ( 74 % ) of whites who say police officers in their communities treat blacks and whites equally , but higher than the share ( 37 % ) of blacks who say the same .
As the nation marked the ninth anniversary of the Sept. 11 terror attacks last week , many in the public and the media focused more on current tensions over Islam in America – most notably plans by a Florida pastor to burn copies of the Koran . Nearly two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they followed the controversy over the pastor 's announcement that he would burn Korans on Sept. 11 more closely than any other major story . The burning did not happen , but the story ranked second on the list of stories followed most closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey of 1001 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Another 9 % say they followed news about the Sept. 11 anniversary most closely . The media devoted 15 % of the newshole last week to news dealing with anti-Muslim sentiments . Most of that ( 14 % ) focused on Pastor Terry Jones ' plans and the push to get him to cancel the Koran burning , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . An additional 4 % of coverage focused on the continuing debate over a planned Muslim community center and mosque near the site of the World Trade Center towers in downtown Manhattan . Despite the attention to religious controversies , Americans say they followed news about the major oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico – now stopped – more closely than other major news stories ( 27 % ) . News about the spill , however , was limited ( 2 % of the newshole ) . With coverage now focused on blame for the spill and its uncertain environmental impact , the public 's continued interest likely also reflects the story 's perceived importance .
Millennials of all ages favor the Democratic Party by large margins , though the party 's advantage in leaned identification is greater among the oldest Millennials . Among Millennials born between 1981 and 1986 ( 28 to 33 in 2014 ) , the Democratic Party leads by 18 points ( 51 % Dem/lean Dem , 33 % Rep/lean Rep ) . Among the youngest adult Millennials ( 18 to 23 in 2014 ) the Democratic Party 's advantage is a still sizeable , though slightly narrower , 14 points ( 51 % Dem/lean Dem , 37 % Rep/lean Rep ) . To some extent , the more Democratic tendencies of younger generations reflect differences in racial and ethnic composition , with non-whites , who tend to be more Democratic in their partisan affiliation and vote choices , making up a greater share of those in younger generations . The accompanying graph shows partisan leanings in 2014 for whites based on their year of birth . Overall , Republicans held an 8.6 % lead in leaned partisan identification among whites ; this advantage is seen across all generations of whites – except Millennials . However , while older white Millennials are substantially more Democratic than whites in other generations , the partisan balance among the youngest white Millennials is closer to the average balance among whites of all ages .
While the protests in Egypt and winter storms were the stories the public says they followed most closely , many also continued to keep a close watch on economic news . About a third ( 35 % ) say they followed economic news very closely . Only about one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say they followed news about the economy more closely than any other maj0r story last week . News about the economy accounted for 5 % of the newshole . A quarter ( 25 % ) say they followed news about a federal judge 's ruling that part of the nation 's new health care law is unconstitutional ; 9 % say this is the news they followed most closely . Republicans ( 33 % ) are more likely to say they followed this news very closely than Democrats ( 23 % ) or independents ( 21 % ) . The continuing debate over the health care law enacted last year accounted for 7 % of coverage last week . More than half of that – 4 % of the total — focused on the court ruling . About a quarter ( 24 % ) say they followed news about the Super Bowl very closely . This was the top news for 9 % . In 2010 , 27 % said they followed news about the National Football League championship game very closely . This year , about three-in-ten men ( 29 % ) say they followed news about the Super Bowl very closely ; 18 % of women say the same . And as Republican candidates start talking about possible challenges to Barack Obama next year , 15 % say they followed news about the 2012 presidential elections very closely ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the next campaign made up less than 1 % of coverage .
Two years ago , Pew Research Center also found an increase in the proportion of Americans who agreed that `` since the U.S. is the most powerful nation in the world , we should go our own way in international matters , not worrying too much about whether other countries agree with us or not . '' The percentage agreeing jumped to 44 % , from just 28 % in 2006 . But in the new survey , the number saying the U.S. should go its own way in the world has fallen back to 35 % , which is more in line with measures over the past few decades ; 62 % disagree with this statement , up from 51 % in 2009 .
A Pew Research Center survey of 2,003 American adults ( including 795 who are currently employed on a full- or part-time basis ) conducted Sept. 11 - 14 and 18 - 21 , 2014 , finds that social media plays some role in the lives of many American workers – but that role is not always clear-cut or entirely positive . As noted above , 17 % of workers say they use social media to build or strengthen personal relationships at work – but the transparency that social media facilitates comes with costs as well as benefits . Some 14 % of workers have found information on social media that has improved their professional opinion of a colleague ; at the same time , a similar share ( 16 % ) have found information on social media that has lowered their professional opinion of a colleague . Younger workers are more likely than their older counterparts to say they have discovered information about a colleague on social media that lowered their professional opinion of them – but also are more likely than older workers to have found information that improved their professional opinion of a colleague . Some 23 % of workers ages 18 to 29 report that they have discovered information on social media that improved their professional opinion of a colleague . By comparison , just 12 % of workers ages 30 to 49 and 9 % of workers ages 50 to 64 have experienced this . Similarly , 29 % of these younger workers have discovered information that lowered their professional opinion of a colleague : 16 % of those ages 30 to 49 and 6 % of those ages 50 to 64 indicate that this has happened to them .
For instance , in the first two days of the survey field period ( March 10 - 11 ) , 42 % said the new coronavirus outbreak was a major threat to the health of the U.S. population . In the final three days of the survey field period , this share had risen to 55 % .
Public interest in the campaign continues to rise , and is much higher than at comparable periods in previous presidential elections . In fact , the current level of interest in campaign news rivals or surpasses interest in the very late stages of the 2004 and 2000 campaigns . Last week , 44 % of the public followed news about the campaign very closely . In mid-October 2004 , 46 % were paying very close attention to the campaign . And in mid-October 2000 , 40 % were following very closely .
The share of Americans who express consistently conservative or consistently liberal opinions has doubled over the past two decades , from 10 % to 21 % . As a result , the amount of ideological overlap between the two parties has diminished . The `` median , '' or typical , Republican is now more conservative than 94 % of Democrats , compared with 70 % twenty years ago . And the median Democrat is more liberal than 92 % of Republicans , up from 64 % . Among Republicans and Democrats who are highly engaged in politics , 70 % now take positions that are mostly or consistently in line with the ideological bent of their party . Partisan antipathy has risen . The share of Republicans who have very unfavorable opinions of the Democratic Party has jumped from 17 % to 43 % in the last 20 years . Similarly , the share of Democrats with very negative opinions of the Republican Party also has more than doubled , from 16 % to 38 % . But these numbers tell only part of the story . Among Republicans and Democrats who have a very unfavorable impression of the other party , the vast majority say the opposing party 's policies represent a threat to the nation 's well-being .
Nearly six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 59 % ) say the government should do more to solve problems , compared with about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) who say government is doing too many things better left to businesses and individuals . The share who say government should do more to solve problems has increased slightly , by 4 percentage points , since September 2019 . The share who say this is 12 points higher than it was in April 2015 . While two-thirds of Republicans ( 66 % ) say that government is doing too many things better left to businesses and individuals , the share of Republicans and Republican leaners who say government should do more to solve problems has increased – from 23 % to 32 % – since 2015 . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , the share who say government should do more to solve problems has increased from about two-thirds ( 68 % ) in 2015 to about eight-in-ten ( 82 % ) today .
Our recent survey on the global balance of power between the U.S. and China included a number of questions about the world 's two most powerful countries , including a basic measure of favorability – whether Russians have a favorable or unfavorable view of China and the U.S. And on this simple question , the trend is clear : China is gaining popularity in Russia as attitudes toward the U.S. turn sharply negative . In just the past two years , favorable views of China have jumped 17 percentage points among Russians , from 62 % in 2013 to an all-time high of 79 % today . Meanwhile , favorable views of the U.S. have taken a nosedive , falling from 51 % in 2013 , to 23 % in 2014 , to an all-time low of 15 % today .
The study looked at changes in educational attainment across three recent generations , finding that the youngest generation of Muslim adults analyzed ( born 1976 to 1985 ) have far more formal education than those in the oldest generation analyzed ( born 1936 to 1955 ) . While both men and women are contributing to these gains , women have been gaining at a faster rate . The oldest Muslim women in the study averaged just 2.5 years of schooling , compared with 4.6 years for men – a gap of 2.1 years . Young women ( ages 25 to 34 as of 2010 ) , by comparison , have averaged more than twice as many years of formal education as their female elders ( 6.1 years ) , and now trail young men ( 7.3 years ) by just over a year .
About seven-in-ten Americans approve of direct talks with North Korea today ; in March of 2015 , shortly before the Iran agreement was reached , only about half of the public ( 49 % ) supported negotiating directly with Iran over its nuclear program . A larger share ( 63 % ) supported direct U.S. talks with Iran in 2009 .
As for sources of health information , about seven in 10 Latinos ( 71 percent ) report that they received information from a doctor in the past year . An equal proportion report obtaining health information through their social networks , including family , friends , churches , and community groups . An even larger share ( 83 percent ) report that they obtained health information from some branch of the media , with television being the dominant source . Not only are most Latinos obtaining information from media sources , but a sizeable proportion ( 79 percent ) say they are acting on this information . It is beyond the scope of this report to assess the accuracy and usefulness of health information obtained from non-medical sources , but the survey findings clearly demonstrate the power and potential of these alternative outlets to disseminate health information to the disparate segments of the Latino population .
Following the 2020 elections , members of both parties are generally optimistic about the future of their parties . More than eight-in-ten Democrats ( 83 % ) today say that they are either very or somewhat optimistic about the future of the Democratic Party , and nearly three-quarters of Republicans ( 74 % ) say the same about their party .
Europeans have experienced a variety of economic challenges in recent years , and the financial anxiety felt by many is clearly reflected in the survey 's findings . A remarkable number of Europeans believe the financial situation for average people in their country has not improved over the past two decades . In Greece , Italy and Spain – three southern European nations hit hard by the financial crisis – large majorities say average people are worse off than they were 20 years ago . And roughly half or more share this view in France and the UK . Two notable exceptions are Poland and Sweden , where about two-in-three believe people are generally better off financially .
As for men , their labor force participation rate has declined in this decade — just as it has every decade since the Bureau of Labor Statistics began keeping such records in 1948 . As of June 2009 , it stood at 72 % , the lowest level in modern history . The current economic downturn has hit men harder than women , with men suffering about two-thirds of all recession-related job losses . As often happens in a recession , a portion of these newly unemployed workers have become discouraged about finding jobs and have dropped out of the labor force altogether .
Job growth for recent journalism and mass communication grads stalled in 2013 with minority students hit particularly hard by the slowdown , according to a new University of Georgia survey of nearly 1,800 bachelor 's and master 's degree recipients . In 2013 , 65 % of bachelor 's degree holders in journalism and mass communication found full-time work six to eight months after graduation , a slight decrease from 65.6 % in 2013 and the first decline since 2009 , when the recession was at its peak . Additionally , unemployment for the recent graduates rose to 12.2 % in 2013 , up from 10.7 % in 2012 . That jobless number , however , is equal to the overall rate for 20 - 24 year olds . For minorities , the news from the job market was worse . Only 55.1 % of the 2013 minority bachelor 's degree recipients reported full-time employment at the time they returned the survey , down significantly from 60.3 % in 2012 . The non-minority employment rate of 72.8 % was unchanged from the previous year and stood 18 percentage points higher than minorities . That represents the highest discrepancy recorded in the 27 years that Dr. Lee Becker has conducted the survey .
There was a time when Catholics in both parties were largely united in their admiration for Pope Francis . But in recent months , even these views have become more polarized along party lines , with Catholic Democrats and Democratic leaners viewing Francis more favorably than Catholic Republicans and GOP leaners . Among Catholics , Republicans are now much more likely than Democrats to say the pope is `` too liberal '' ( 55 % vs. 19 % ) and `` naïve '' ( 32 % vs. 18 % ) . While most Catholic Democrats ( 67 % ) say Francis is doing an excellent or good job spreading the Catholic faith , just 45 % Catholic Republicans say so . And as of early 2018 , nearly twice as many Democrats ( 71 % ) as Republicans ( 37 % ) said Pope Francis represents a major change for the better .
Many Christian traditions disapprove of premarital sex . And even though Christians in the United States hold less permissive views than religiously unaffiliated Americans about dating and sex , most say it 's acceptable in at least some circumstances for consenting adults to have sex outside of marriage , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Half of Christians say casual sex – defined in the survey as sex between consenting adults who are not in a committed romantic relationship – is sometimes or always acceptable . Six-in-ten Catholics ( 62 % ) take this view , as do 56 % of Protestants in the historically Black tradition , 54 % of mainline Protestants and 36 % of evangelical Protestants . Among those who are religiously unaffiliated , meanwhile , the vast majority ( 84 % ) say casual sex is sometimes or always acceptable , including roughly nine-in-ten atheists ( 94 % ) and agnostics ( 95 % ) who say this . The religiously unaffiliated , also known as `` nones , '' are those who describe themselves , religiously , as atheist , agnostic or as `` nothing in particular . '' When it comes to sex between unmarried adults who are in a committed relationship , the gap between Christians and the unaffiliated is less stark . A majority of Christians ( 57 % ) say sex between unmarried adults in a committed relationship is sometimes or always acceptable . That includes 67 % of mainline Protestants , 64 % of Catholics , 57 % of Protestants in the historically Black tradition and 46 % of evangelical Protestants .
American adults generally support making tuition free at public colleges and universities for all U.S. students , yet there are sizable partisan and demographic differences in views of tuition-free college . Among all U.S. adults , 63 % favor making tuition at public colleges free , including 37 % who strongly favor the proposal . Slightly more than a third oppose tuition-free college ( 36 % ) , with 21 % strongly opposed , according to a Pew Research Center conducted in January . Large shares of black ( 86 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 82 % ) favor making college free for all Americans , compared with 53 % of whites . And while 75 % of adults under age 30 favor this proposal , it draws support from only about half ( 47 % ) of those ages 65 and older .
The Pakistani military receives an extremely high level of public support . Fully 87 % give the military positive ratings , an eight percentage point increase from 2013 . Six-in-ten or more also say the media ( 68 % ) , religious leaders ( 64 % ) , Prime Minister Sharif ( 62 % ) and the national government ( 60 % ) are having a good influence on the way things are going in Pakistan .
Looking at FBI data , we saw that Chicago did indeed have the highest total number of murders of any U.S. city in 2012 . But when adjusting for population , it was far from being the U.S. `` murder capital . '' Topping that list was Flint , Mich. , with 62 murders per 100,000 people .
Rural residents are more likely than people in suburban and urban areas to know all or most of their neighbors , but they are n't more likely to interact with them . Four-in-ten rural residents say they know all or most of their neighbors , compared with 24 % of urban residents and 28 % of suburban residents . But rural residents have in-person conversations with their neighbors about as often as those in other community types . Roughly half of rural residents ( 47 % ) say they have face-to-face conversations with their neighbors at least once a week , with similar shares of suburban ( 49 % ) and urban residents ( 53 % ) saying the same .
Across active Twitter users in these five countries , some 90 % of legislators have used a hashtag in at least one tweet . And the most-used hashtags are typically linked to domestic political discussions , elections and policies rather than cross-national issues or movements . The most-used hashtag in Australia , # auspol , is a generic catchall for anything related to Australian politics being discussed on Twitter . Similar tags appear in the top 10 hashtag lists in Canada ( # cdnpoli , # polcan ) and New Zealand ( # nzpol ) . Top hashtags in the UK center around Brexit ( # brexit , # peoplesvote ) and some notable events , such as Holocaust Memorial Day and the European Union elections . The annual State of the Union speech ( # sotu ) was a widely popular hashtag among U.S. legislators , with 85 % of tweeters mentioning it at least once . American legislators also used hashtags to bring attention to the For the People Act of 2019 ( also known as H.R . 1 ) , which proposes expanding voting rights and campaign finance reform , and theEquality Act , which amends the Civil Rights Act to incorporate and expand protections towards minority groups . U.S.-specific occasions that occur in the first half of the calendar year also top the list , including hashtags related to Memorial Day ( May ) , Martin Luther King Jr. Day ( January ) and Black History Month ( February ) . Some themes , however , appear as top hashtag topics across multiple countries . Hashtags related to the March 8 celebration of International Women 's Day ( such as # iwd2019 and # internationalwomensday ) were universally popular across all five countries . The 75th anniversary of D-Day ( # dday75 ) appeared in the top hashtags list of the three nations that sent troops to Normandy to fight on that day in June 1944 – Canada , the U.S. and the UK . Climate and environmental activism also make the top counts in New Zealand ( # climatechange ) , the UK ( # climatechange ) and the U.S. ( # earthday ) .
Nearly half of the public says they heard nothing at all last week about the Food and Drug Administration looking into whether artificial food dyes can cause hyperactivity in children or the publication of grisly photos tied to allegations that U.S. soldiers murdered civilians in Afghanistan . Fully 48 % say they heard nothing at all about the FDA action ; 12 % say they heard a lot about this story and 40 % say they heard a little . Women are almost twice as likely to say they heard a lot about this topic than are men ( 15 % versus 8 % ) . Fully 47 % say they heard nothing at all about the publication of photos and videos allegedly taken by U.S. soldiers accused of killing Afghans ; 11 % say they heard a lot about the photos and videos , while 41 % say they heard a little . Last fall , when five soldiers tied to these incidents were charged with premeditated murder , 15 % had heard a lot about the story and 45 % had heard a little . More had heard about a Supreme Court hearing last week about a major gender discrimination case involving Wal-Mart . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they heard a lot about this story , while 44 % say they heard a little . About a third ( 35 % ) say they heard nothing at all about this . The hearing dealt with whether women who have worked at Wal-Mart may sue the retailer in a class action law suit .
Majorities say the feminist movement and the Democratic Party have done at least a fair amount when it comes to institutions and groups that have helped advance women 's rights . Seven-in-ten Americans say the feminist movement has done a great deal or a fair amount to advance women 's rights in the U.S. , while 59 % say the same about the Democratic Party . Far fewer ( 37 % ) say the Republican Party has done at least a fair amount to advance women 's rights .
Currently , 21 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say they can trust government , compared with 14 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . Throughout Obama 's tenure , more Democrats than Republicans reported trusting the government , though that has flipped since Trump 's election . Since the 1970s , trust in government has been consistently higher among members of the party that controls the White House than among the opposition party . However , Republicans have been much more reactive than Democrats to changes in political power . Republicans have expressed much higher levels of trust during Republican than during Democratic presidencies , while Democrats ' attitudes have tended to be more consistent , regardless of which party controls the White House .
Moms who are multigenerational caregivers spend 45 more minutes a day providing adult or child care than comparable dads . This difference is driven entirely by the fact that moms – whether caring for an adult or not – spend more time on child care daily than dads . There is no significant gender difference in the amount of time moms and dads who are multigenerational caregivers engage in adult care . Multigenerational caregivers younger than age 30 spend more than three hours a day engaged in this kind of work , compared with just over two hours a day among those ages 45 to 59 . As with gender , the age differences in caregiving are driven by differences in time spent caring for children . The youngest parents – who are more likely to have younger children requiring more hands-on care – spend more than two hours a day on child care , compared with an hour among those ages 45 to 59 . Younger and older parents who provide multigenerational care spend about the same amount of time providing adult care ( about an hour a day each ) .
While the total number of COVID-19 deaths in Democratic districts remains higher overall , new deaths have been higher on average in Republican-controlled districts since the end of July . New deaths in Republican controlled districts began increasing in mid-October while they were still falling somewhat overall in Democratically controlled districts . However , since November , deaths have been rising in both Republican and Democratic districts .
Since the oldest among this rising generation are just turning 22 this year , and most are still in their teens or younger , we hesitated at first to give them a name – Generation Z , the iGeneration and Homelanders were some early candidates . ( In our first in-depth look at this generation , we used the term `` post-Millennials '' as a placeholder . ) But over the past year , Gen Z has taken hold in popular culture and journalism . Sources ranging from Merriam-Webster and Oxford to the Urban Dictionary now include this name for the generation that follows Millennials , and Google Trends data show that `` Generation Z '' is far outpacing other names in people 's searches for information . While there is no scientific process for deciding when a name has stuck , the momentum is clearly behind Gen Z .
A majority ( 56 % ) of Republican registered voters say that disagreements within the GOP will keep many from supporting Trump as the party 's nominee , while just 38 % say the party will solidly unite behind him , according to a new Pew Research Center report . This is the most skeptical either party 's electorate has been of their party 's ability to unite behind a frontrunner in at least 20 years .
A new survey of public attitudes toward federal agencies finds that partisan differences in views of the FBI have increased markedly over the past year . And Americans ' opinions about Immigration and Customs Enforcement are deeply polarized : 72 % of Republicans view ICE favorably , while an identical share of Democrats view it unfavorably . Overall public views of the FBI remain positive : 65 % have a favorable opinion of the FBI , while 26 % view it unfavorably . But since early 2017 , the share of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents with a positive view of the bureau has fallen 16 percentage points , from 65 % to 49 % . The national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted July 11 - 15 among 1,007 adults , finds that six-in-ten or more view several federal agencies favorably : the National Park Service ( 83 % favorable ) , the Census Bureau ( 69 % ) , the FBI ( 65 % ) , the CIA ( 61 % ) and the Department of Health and Human Services ( 60 % ) .
Awareness is also widespread in Germany ( 72 % a lot or a little ) , Australia ( 66 % ) , and Indonesia ( 66 % ) . And majorities in Nigeria , Britain , Spain , France , Russia and India are familiar with this issue . Few , however , in Latin America know about the recalls — just 27 % of Brazilians , 26 % of Mexicans and 14 % in Argentina have heard something about this . Awareness is also low in Pakistan ( 17 % ) .
Proponents of open data hope that a variety of benefits might emerge from greater transparency about government activities , from more public accountability to better customer service . Majorities are hopeful that open data can help journalists cover government more thoroughly ( 56 % do ) and 53 % say open data can make government officials more accountable . Combining those who respond affirmatively to these propositions means that 66 % of Americans harbor hopes that open data will improve government accountability . When looking at government performance , however , people are less optimistic , with less than half of Americans saying open data can help the quality of government services or officials ' decisions .
Despite a sharp single-year decline in refugee resettlement , the U.S. still resettled more refugees ( 33,000 ) than any other one country . Following the U.S. were Canada ( 27,000 ) , Australia ( 15,000 ) and the United Kingdom ( 6,000 ) . Sweden , Germany , Norway and France each resettled about 3,000 refugees . Per capita , Canada led the world by resettling 725 refugees per 1 million residents , followed by Australia ( 618 ) and Norway ( 528 ) . The U.S. resettled 102 refugees per 1 million U.S. residents .
Currently , 51 % of Americans favor allowing more offshore oil and gas drilling in U.S. waters while 41 % are opposed . In June , during the Gulf of Mexico oil leak , there was more opposition ( 52 % ) than support ( 44 % ) for increased offshore drilling . Support for expanded offshore drilling is still lower than it was in February , before the Gulf oil leak , when the public backed more offshore drilling in U.S. waters by a two-to-one margin ( 63 % favor , 31 % oppose ) . From the fall of 2008 to early this year , opinion about offshore drilling had been fairly stable .
Four of the eight sources named by at least 2 % of U.S. adults are much more likely to be named by Democrats and independents who lean Democratic than by Republicans and GOP leaners : MSNBC , The New York Times , NPR and CNN . Fox News is the one outlet among these eight that is far more likely to be named by Republicans than by Democrats . Those who name Fox News and MSNBC display roughly the same high levels of partisanship . About nine-in-ten of those whose main source is Fox News ( 93 % ) identify as Republican , very close to the 95 % of those who name MSNBC and identify as Democrats . Similarly , about nine-in-ten of those who name The New York Times ( 91 % ) and NPR ( 87 % ) as their main political news source identify as Democrats , with CNN at about eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) .
Holiday sales reliably spike in December for a number of retail categories , according to the census data — notably department stores and other general-merchandise stores ; clothing and accessories stores ; electronics and appliance stores ; and e-commerce sites , catalog companies and other `` non-store retailers . '' While other types of retailers ( such as home-improvement stores and car dealers ) exhibit different seasonal sales patterns , overall U.S. retail sales are tilted toward the holiday season : November-December 2013 sales made up 18.14 % of sales for all of 2013 , according to the census data .
Generally , those who are most concerned about Zika include older adults , especially older women , and those who report `` fair '' or `` poor '' health status . For instance , 44 % of women ages 50 and older think Zika is a major threat to the U.S. population as a whole , compared with 33 % of older men . By contrast , 23 % of adults under age 50 consider Zika a major threat to the population . Additionally , 42 % of those who report being in `` fair '' or `` poor '' health feel it is a major threat vs. 27 % of those who say they are in `` excellent '' or `` very good '' health .
Lawful immigrants account for three-quarters of the foreign-born population in the U.S. – 33.8 million people out of 44.7 million in 2015 , the most recent year for which numbers were available . Among lawful immigrants , those who hold U.S. citizenship ( 19.8 million in 2015 ) outnumber lawful permanent residents ( 11.9 million ) .
While Brits remain divided on whether leaving the EU is right for their country , key EU members outside of the UK are resolute : A majority in every member state surveyed says Brexit would be a bad thing .
Social media platforms have also become a notable venue for people to try to convince their friends to vote . More broadly , registered voters have used a variety of methods to talk to others about voting . Below are the ways that people are hearing from their family and friends , encouraging them to vote . There is no overall partisan tilt to one candidate or the other when it comes to the `` go vote '' messages people are getting from their friends and family through various channels . Equal shares of registered voters were encouraged by their friends to vote for each candidate in each kind of communication :
By 62 % t0 33 % , more women disapprove than approve of the job Trump has done . Among men , about as many say they approve of how Trump has outlined his plans ( 46 % ) as disapprove ( 48 % ) . By more than two-to-one , blacks ( 69 % -25 % ) and Hispanics ( 68 % -27 % ) say they disapprove of the job Trump has done explaining his plans and policies to the American people . Whites are more evenly divided : 46 % say they approve , while 49 % disapprove .
Roughly six-in-ten Japanese ( 61 % ) support increasing economic sanctions against North Korea to deal with Pyongyang 's nuclear program . Only 25 % back deepening ties with North Korea . Notably , however , 41 % of young Japanese support deepening ties , while only 21 % of their elders , those ages 50 and older , agree .
President Trump looms large in many Americans ' congressional vote . Overall , six-in-ten registered voters say that Donald Trump will factor into their vote for Congress this fall . More than a third of voters ( 37 % ) say they consider their congressional ballot as a vote against Trump , while about a quarter ( 23 % ) say they consider it a vote for Trump – these views are , perhaps unsurprisingly , split by party : 66 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters view their vote as a vote against Trump , while 48 % of GOP voters say their vote is a vote for the president .
By some measures , Millennials have very different lives than earlier generations did when they were young . They 're slow to adopt many of the traditional markers of adulthood . For the first time in more than 130 years , young adults are more likely to be living in their parents ' home than in any other living arrangement . In fact , a larger share of them are living with their parents than with a romantic partner – marking a significant historical shift . More broadly , young adult geographic mobility is at its lowest level in 50 years , even though today 's young adults are less likely than previous generations of young adults to be married , to own a home or to be parents , all of which are traditional obstacles to moving .
The OPT program allows foreigners who are full-time students at American colleges and universities to remain in the country on a temporary basis to gain practical work experience after they graduate . Unlike the H-1B program , the OPT program does not require applicants to be sponsored by an employer , and it does not set a cap on the number of people who can participate . But the duration of legal residence under OPT is shorter than it is under H-1B : Participants may work in the U.S. for 12 months after graduation , extendable to a maximum of 36 months for those with a degree in a science , technology , engineering or math ( STEM ) field . The OPT program has become an increasingly popular pathway for foreign graduates of U.S. colleges to remain in the country . In recent years , the number of people approved for OPT has surpassed the number of workers who received initial approval for H-1B visas . In 2017 , a record 276,500 foreign graduates received work permits under OPT , compared with 108,100 people who received initial approval for H-1B visas .
Across the Asia-Pacific region , as well as in the U.S. , the share of the public who express confidence in Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi exceeds the share who lack confidence in him . A majority in the Philippines give the leader a vote of confidence for his handling of world affairs , as do more than four-in-ten in Japan , Australia and South Korea . The U.S. shows some division in perceptions of the Indian prime minister , with slightly more of the public saying they have confidence in Modi than do not ( 39 % vs. 32 % , respectively ) . More than a third of Indonesians ( 37 % ) express confidence in Modi , though an equal proportion offer no opinion . Roughly a quarter ( 26 % ) have no confidence .
In March , Mexico restricted nonessential travel across its border with the United States , while the governments of El Salvador , Guatemala and Honduras also implemented restrictions on movement . Most migrants apprehended at the U.S.-Mexico border in recent years have come from Mexico and Central American nations . In a shift , Mexicans far outnumbered non-Mexicans among those apprehended at the border in fiscal 2020 . Mexican citizens accounted for 63 % of the total number apprehended , marking the first year in the last five in which they outnumbered citizens of other countries . The change represents a return to the pattern observed throughout the 2000s and 2010s . For example , in 2000 ( the earliest year for which data is available ) , Mexicans accounted for 98 % of apprehensions while non-Mexicans accounted for just 2 % . Border agents apprehended a total of 253,118 Mexicans in fiscal 2020 , up from 166,458 the year before and the highest total in seven years . The increase comes despite a steep decline in apprehensions of Central American migrants in fiscal 2020 . The U.S. apprehended 47,243 migrants from Guatemala , down from 264,168 the year before ; 40,091 from Honduras , down from 253,795 ; and 16,484 from El Salvador , down from 89,811 .
Prior to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa becoming a high-profile international story , a median of 29 % across the seven African nations polled feared infectious disease as the top danger . Many of these countries have high prevalence rates of HIV/AIDS and have suffered through multiple disease epidemics in the last decade . However , other problems also worry Africans . In Nigeria , where religious strife is exacerbated by the Boko Haram terrorist group , more say religious and ethnic hatred is the world 's greatest threat ( 38 % ) .
Greeks also differ from other Europeans in their evaluation of international institutions . Of the countries surveyed , Greeks have the least favorable views of the United Nations , the EU and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) . Roughly two-thirds of Europeans have a favorable view of the UN , compared with roughly four-in-ten Greeks ( 41 % ) . Nearly six-in-ten Europeans ( 59 % ) view NATO favorably , compared with just a quarter of Greeks . And on the EU , 51 % of Europeans view the institution favorably while only 27 % of Greeks agree .
The public is divided over President Obama 's recent executive action that expands the number of undocumented immigrants permitted to stay and work in the U.S. At the same time , Americans continue to broadly support a pathway to legal status for people in this country illegally . About as many disapprove ( 50 % ) as approve ( 46 % ) of Obama 's action , which could make up to 4 million people newly eligible for deportation relief . Roughly eight-in-ten Republicans ( 82 % ) disapprove of the executive action and about seven-in-ten Democrats ( 71 % ) approve of it , with very strong attitudes on both sides .
The vast majority of Americans expect abortion to remain at least mostly legal in the U.S. A survey conducted in December 2018 asked Americans what they think the status of abortion laws in the country will be in 2050 ; about three-quarters said it will either be legal with no restrictions ( 22 % ) or legal with some restrictions ( 55 % ) . Far fewer said it will be illegal except in certain cases ( 16 % ) or illegal with no exceptions ( 5 % ) .
As overall perceptions of economic news have grown more negative , the partisan gap in perceptions has widened . In the new survey , 64 % of Republicans say news about the economy is mostly bad , compared with 44 % of independents and 40 % of Democrats . In January , when views of economic news were much less gloomy , the partisan differences were much smaller : 24 % of Republicans , 17 % of Democrats and 28 % of independents said news about the economy was mostly bad .
Republican views of the FBI have rebounded after declining in 2018 : About two-thirds of Republicans ( 66 % ) now say they have a favorable opinion of the FBI – up 17 percentage points since last July , but on par with views of the bureau in 2016 and early 2017 . Democratic opinions of the FBI are little changed in recent years , with roughly three-quarters ( 77 % ) continuing to say they view the bureau favorably .
Today , about half of Americans ( 49 % ) say the Bible should have at least `` some '' influence on U.S. laws , including nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) who say it should have `` a great deal '' of influence , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Among U.S. Christians , two-thirds ( 68 % ) want the Bible to influence U.S. laws at least some , and among white evangelical Protestants , this figure rises to about nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) . At the other end of the spectrum , there 's broad opposition to biblical influence on U.S. laws among religiously unaffiliated Americans , also known as religious `` nones , '' who identify as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular . '' Roughly three-quarters in this group ( 78 % ) say the Bible should hold little to no sway , including 86 % of self-described atheists who say the Bible should not influence U.S. legislation at all . Two-thirds of U.S. Jews , as well , think the Bible should have not much or should have no influence on laws .
The public is divided on how much progress has been made toward solving the major problems facing the country over the course of Obama 's presidency . Roughly a third ( 35 % ) say Obama has made progress toward solving major problems , while a similar share ( 32 % ) says he tried but failed . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) believe he has made things worse ; just 9 % say he has not addressed the major problems facing the country .
More Americans say they feel like they know a lot about Giuliani and McCain than the other leading Republican candidates . Even so , fewer than three-in-ten say they know a lot about Giuliani ( 28 % ) and McCain ( 27 % ) . Just 16 % say they know a lot about Romney , while 11 % say they know a lot about Huckabee . More than four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) say they know `` nothing at all '' about the former Arkansas governor .
The graphs below track interest and coverage over the `` life span '' of several of the year 's major stories : the economic stimulus bill , and the nomination of Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court and Michael Jackson 's death . The next set of graphs compares interest and coverage for news about the economy , the debate over health care reform , the situation in Afghanistan and the swine flu when they were asked over the course of the year .
While press coverage was more focused on the U.S. attorney scandal and the 15 British sailors being held in Iran this past week , Americans remained more focused on news about the current situation in Iraq . Overall , 26 % of Americans reported following news from Iraq more closely than any other topic , compared with 15 % who tracked the British sailors and 12 % who tracked the U.S. attorney scandal most closely . By comparison , both the British sailors and the U.S. attorney scandal received roughly twice as much press coverage as the situation in Iraq this past week .
Millennials remain the most Democratic age cohort : 51 % of Millennials identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , compared with 35 % who identify as Republican or lean Republican . The balance of leaned party identification narrows among Generation X and the Baby Boomers . And among the Silent Generation , Republicans hold a four-point lead in leaned party affiliation ( 47 % -43 % ) . Back to top
Trump viewed as candidate of ‘ change , ' not necessarily for the better . Fully 77 % of voters say Trump would change the way things work in Washington , compared with just 45 % who say the same about Clinton . But more voters say Trump would change things for the worse than for the better ( 44 % vs. 33 % ) . A quarter of voters say Clinton would change Washington for the worse , while 20 % say she would change things for the better .
Support for conducting all elections by mail has risen among several groups – but not Republican men . Two years ago , similar shares of men and women in each party expressed support for vote-by-mail elections . Today , there is now a gender gap in views within the GOP . In 2018 , roughly a quarter of Republican men ( 24 % ) and GOP women ( 28 % ) said they favored conducting all elections by mail . There has been no change in support for the proposal among Republican men over the last two years , but support has risen by 13 percentage points among Republican women – from 28 % then to 41 % today . Among both Democratic men and women , support for the proposal has risen by roughly 30 points over this period . Today , about seven-in-ten say they strongly or somewhat favor conducting all elections by mail today , up from about four-in-ten in 2018 .
Our most recent survey on the issue , conducted July 26 - 29 , 2012 , shortly after a gunman killed 12 people at a movie theater in Aurora , Colorado , found that 47 % said it was more important to control gun ownership , while 46 % said it was more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns . Opinions were largely unchanged from April 2012 , when 45 % prioritized gun control and 49 % gun rights . Recent mass shootings have had little impact on the public 's attitudes toward gun control . That was the case after the Colorado theater shootings ; similarly , views of gun control changed little after the Jan. 2011 shooting in Tucson Arizona , which killed six people and seriously wounded former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords . In April 2007 , following the large-scale shooting at Virginia Tech University , 60 % said it was more important to control gun ownership , which was little changed from 58 % in February 2004 .
Concern that refugees will have a negative impact on the country is higher among those with positive views of the National Front . Opposition to immigrants and refugees has been a mainstay of National Front platforms , and earlier this week Le Pen vowed to suspend all immigration to France . The 2016 poll found that support for the National Front was linked to negative attitudes toward the influx of refugees that has affected France and other EU nations over the past couple of years . People who have a favorable view of the party are much more likely than other groups to believe refugees take away jobs and social benefits , increase the likelihood of terrorism , and are more to blame for crime . People who like the National Front are more skeptical of globalization . Marine Le Pen launched her presidential campaign in February with a speech decrying globalization , and as the 2016 survey showed , the belief that involvement in the global economy has been a bad thing for France is more common among those with a favorable opinion of the National Front . The European Union gets low marks in France overall , but the EU gets especially poor ratings from those who see the National Front favorably . Only 30 % of people with a favorable opinion of the National Front say the same about the EU .
The U.S. birth rate dipped in 2011 to the lowest ever recorded , led by a plunge in births to immigrant women since the onset of the Great Recession . The overall U.S. birth rate , which is the annual number of births per 1,000 women in the prime childbearing ages of 15 to 44 , declined 8 % from 2007 to 2010 . The birth rate for U.S.-born women decreased 6 % during these years , but the birth rate for foreign-born women plunged 14 % — more than it had declined over the entire 1990 - 2007 period . The birth rate for Mexican immigrant women fell even more , by 23 % .
While 58 % of Americans have a positive opinion of the UN , support varies considerably by political party . A strong majority of Democrats ( 72 % ) in the U.S. have a favorable view of the international body , while a smaller 60 % -majority of independents agree . Meanwhile , support among Republicans trails at 41 % and has dropped ten percentage points since 2011 .
The coronavirus outbreak has pushed millions of Americans , especially young adults , to move in with family members . The share of 18- to 29-year-olds living with their parents has become a majority since U.S. coronavirus cases began spreading early this year , surpassing the previous peak during the Great Depression era .
Nearly eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 78 % ) oppose the federal government providing a universal basic income of about $ 1,000 per person , with 62 % strongly opposed . A smaller share of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 66 % ) favor a UBI , with just a third supporting the proposal strongly .
Trump 's approval rating has been more sharply divided along partisan lines than that of any president in the modern era of polling . Over the course of his presidency through August , an average of 87 % of Republicans approved of Trump 's handling of the job , compared with an average of just 6 % of Democrats . That 81-point gap between Republicans and Democrats was far larger than the average partisan gaps in approval of Barack Obama ( 67 points ) and George W. Bush ( 58 points ) . Members of the out-of-power party – that is , the party that does not control the White House – have become increasingly critical of U.S. presidents in recent years . The 6 % average of Democrats who approved of Trump 's job performance through August was down from an average of 14 % of Republicans who approved of Obama and an average of 23 % of Democrats who approved of Bush .
About a third of the public ( 32 % ) says they followed news about the economy very closely last week , while 11 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Americans also kept a close watch on several elements of the economic story . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed proposals for stricter regulation of banks and financial institutions very closely ; 2 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Just fewer than two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they followed news about the appearance of Goldman Sachs executives before Congress to face questioning about the company 's role in the economic crisis ; 5 % say this was the story they followed most closely . Just 6 % say they followed news about the financial crisis in Greece very closely . This was the most closely followed story for 1 % .
By contrast , Democrats continue to see the Democratic Party as mostly united in its views on issues and vision for the future : 56 % say this , compared with 39 % who say the party is mostly divided . These views are unchanged from April .
More than one-in-five voting members ( 22 % ) of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate are racial or ethnic minorities , making the 116th Congress the most racially and ethnically diverse in history . There has been a long-running trend toward more racial and ethnic diversity on Capitol Hill : Each of the previous four Congresses broke the record set by the Congress before it .
As Donald Trump prepares to announce his long-awaited decision on the Iran nuclear agreement , more Americans say they disapprove ( 40 % ) than approve ( 32 % ) of the agreement , with about a quarter ( 28 % ) offering no opinion .
The institution of marriage continues to change . Half of U.S. adults today are married , a share that has remained relatively stable in recent years but is down significantly over previous decades . Cohabitation among unmarried partners is rising , including among a growing share of unmarried parents . The share of U.S. adults living without a spouse or partner has also increased , from 39 % in 2007 to 42 % in 2017 .
Support for the United Nations was highest in Indonesia , where the UN played a key role in relief efforts in the wake of the earthquake and tsunami that devastated parts of that country in December 2004 . Nearly eight-in-ten Indonesians ( 78 % ) said they held a favorable view of the United Nations while 18 % said their view of the organization was unfavorable . In the other Muslim countries surveyed , however , reviews of the UN were significantly less upbeat . Barely 30 % of those interviewed in Jordan held a favorable view while 69 % had an unfavorable impression , the highest level of disapproval in any of the 15 countries . Only 29 % of Turks had a positive opinion , with just over half ( 51 % ) giving the UN negative marks . In Egypt , public opinion was divided : 49 % had a favorable view but 51 % had an unfavorable view . Slightly more than four-in-ten Pakistanis ( 42 % ) had a positive opinion , while 22 % disapproved and 36 % did not offer an opinion , easily the largest proportion of no opinion responses recorded in any of the surveys . In neighboring India , a relatively large number of respondents ( 26 % ) also expressed no opinion about the United Nations ; those expressing a view split nearly evenly , 39 % favorable , 35 % unfavorable . Elsewhere in Asia , views were more mixed . A 56 % -majority held a favorable opinion in Japan , a view shared by a 53 % -majority in China . The publics of key U.S. allies in Western Europe were broadly favorable toward the UN , the surveys revealed . Large majorities in France ( 72 % ) , Germany ( 68 % ) , Great Britain ( 65 % ) and Spain ( 60 % ) said they had a positive view of the organization .
Since the Philippines gained independence from the U.S. in 1946 , the U.S. has maintained some military presence on the islands . And despite vocal protests by some Filipinos , three-quarters say that having U.S. military personnel based in the Philippines is a good thing for the country , while just 20 % say it is a bad thing . This view holds across demographic groups , and even among those who hold an unfavorable view of the U.S. , a majority ( 63 % ) say that having U.S. military personnel based in the Philippines is good for their country .
The public sharpened its focus on health care reform last week , following news about the debate in Washington more closely than any other story . Interest in health care reform has steadily increased in recent weeks as coverage – including a prime-time presidential news conference – has intensified . Nearly a third ( 31 % ) name the debate in Washington over health care reform as their top story , more than the share who cite the economy ( 19 % ) or the arrest of Henry Louis Gates Jr. ( 17 % ) . In addition , the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted July 24 - 27 among 1,018 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press , finds that more than four-in-ten ( 44 % ) say they followed health care news very closely , up from 33 % in the previous week and 24 % two weeks prior . Public interest in health care has risen hand-in-hand with the level of media coverage the story has received . According to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , a quarter of the newshole was devoted to health care last week , more than double the level of overall coverage given to any other story . This marks the highest level of media attention given to the topic since PEJ began the News Coverage Index in 2007 . And , as coverage has risen steadily over the past three weeks , public attention to health care has also climbed : almost doubling since mid-July .
In addition , a greater share says that trade agreements lead to economic growth than did so five years ago . About a third ( 31 % ) say that free trade agreements make the economy grow , while 34 % think they slow the economy down ; 25 % say they do not make a difference in economic growth . In 2010 , more than twice as many said they made the economy slow ( 43 % ) than grow ( 19 % ) ; 24 % said they made no difference . On the other hand , there has been no improvement since 2010 in opinions about the effect of free trade agreements on wages . Currently , 46 % say free trade deals make the wages of American workers lower , while just 11 % say they lead to higher wages ( 33 % say they do not make a difference ) . The share saying that trade agreements drive down wages is largely unchanged since 2010 , when 45 % said they made wages lower . In addition , trade agreements continue to be seen as doing more to cost jobs than create them . In the new survey , 46 % say free trade agreements lead to job losses in the United States ; just 17 % say they create jobs in this country . That is only somewhat more positive than five years ago , when 55 % said trade deals cost jobs and 8 % said they create jobs .
However , a recent Pew Research Center survey finds that Republicans are much more skeptical than Democrats when it comes to whether colleges and universities are open to different points of view . This partisan gap is not just limited to views of these institutions – Republicans also are less likely than Democrats to see community colleges and K-12 public schools as open to a wide range of opinions and viewpoints .
About three-quarters of Muslim Americans ( 74 % ) say President Donald Trump is unfriendly toward them , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . And they are no fans of Trump 's : Just 19 % say they approve of the job Trump is doing as president , and among Muslims who reported voting last November , only 8 % say they cast their ballots for him . Most Muslim Americans ( 64 % ) also say they are dissatisfied with the way things are going in the U.S. – a sharp rise since the Center 's last comprehensive survey of U.S. Muslims in 2011 , when just 38 % took this position and 56 % said they were satisfied with the country 's direction . In stark contrast with their current feelings about Trump , most Muslims in 2011 approved of the job Barack Obama was doing as president ( 76 % ) and very few said he was unfriendly toward their group ( 4 % ) .
The euro crisis sparked fears that one casualty of the downturn might be the euro , the single European currency . But about seven-in-ten Germans ( 72 % ) , French ( 72 % ) and Spanish ( 71 % ) want to keep the euro , as do more than half of Italians ( 56 % ) .
The gap between Republicans and Democrats in perceptions of the public health threat posed by COVID-19 is about the same as it was in early May , before cases surged in a number of states , including Alabama , Arizona , Florida , South Carolina and Texas . The partisan gap was somewhat smaller during the early stages of the outbreak in the U.S. in mid-March .
The current uptick in positive economic sentiment has been striking in Europe , Japan and the United States . In the wake of the financial crisis a decade ago , the U.S. economy shrunk by 2.8 % , the EU economy by 4.2 % and the Japanese economy by 5.4 % . Not surprisingly , public assessment of these economies also dropped . But as economic growth has rebounded , so too has public sentiment . Today , American , European and Japanese adults have a more positive view of their own country 's economic situation than they have had at any time since 2002 . Roughly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) say the U.S. economy is in good shape . The U.S. public 's assessment of the American economy is up from 17 % in 2009 . Across five European nations polled regularly since 2002 , a median of 46 % believe their own national economies are doing well , compared with 15 % as recently as 2013 . At the same time , more than four-in-ten Japanese ( 44 % ) voice the opinion that their nation 's economic situation is good , up from 7 % in 2012 . ( Japanese sentiment was just as low in 2002 ( 6 % ) , reflecting the fact that Japan 's economy had been struggling for years , even before the global financial crisis . )
The Black Lives Matter movement , which came to national prominence in the wake of the 2014 police shooting of an unarmed black 18-year-old in Ferguson , Missouri , continues to gain attention following other incidents involving the deaths of black Americans during encounters with the police . A recent Pew Research Center survey conducted Feb. 29-May 8 , 2016 , found that general awareness of Black Lives Matter is widespread among black and white U.S. adults , but attitudes about the movement vary considerably between groups . Roughly four-in-ten Americans support the Black Lives Matter movement . All told , 43 % support the movement , including 18 % who strongly support it . About one-in-five Americans ( 22 % ) oppose the movement , and a sizable share ( 30 % ) said they have not heard anything about the Black Lives Matter movement or did not offer an opinion . Support for Black Lives Matter is particularly high among blacks : 65 % support the movement , including 41 % who strongly support it ; 12 % of blacks say that they oppose the movement . Among whites , 40 % express support , while 28 % say they oppose Black Lives Matter .
Meanwhile , around half of internet users are able to correctly answer several other questions in the survey . Some 54 % of internet users are able to identify examples of phishing attacks . Similarly , 52 % correctly say that turning off the GPS function of a smartphone does not prevent all tracking of that device ( mobile phones can also be tracked via the cellular towers or Wi-Fi networks to which they are connected ) . Additionally , 49 % of internet users know that Americans are legally entitled to get one free copy of their credit report annually from each of the three major credit bureaus . This issue is not specifically related to any technical aspects of cybersecurity , but cybersecurity experts recommend that anyone who uses the internet for financial or other sensitive transactions regularly check their credit reports to discover evidence of identity theft or other kinds of fraud . A similar share ( 48 % ) can correctly define the term `` ransomware . '' This refers to criminals accessing someone 's computer , encrypting their personal files and data , and holding that data hostage unless they are paid to decrypt the files .
The public continues to support the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria . But most Americans say the U.S. military effort against ISIS is not going well , and just 30 % think the U.S. and its allies have a `` clear goal '' in taking military action . Moreover , majorities across the board – 70 % of Republicans , 65 % of independents and 54 % of Democrats – think the United States and its allies lack a clear goal in taking military action against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria .
The Center 's 2019 survey asked Americans about doctors as a group , rather than the individual doctors who patients may have gone to see . But another Pew Research Center survey conducted in the spring of 2016 asked Americans about more direct experiences with their health care providers . It , too , revealed mostly positive opinions . In that survey , 63 % of U.S. adults said they had seen a health care provider for an illness or medical condition within the past year . Among those , eight-in-ten or more said their symptoms or concerns were carefully listened to ( 87 % ) , their doctor really cared about their health and well-being ( 84 % ) , and they got all the information they needed about their treatment or at-home care ( 80 % ) . Only around a quarter of Americans ( 23 % ) said they felt rushed by their health care provider , and even fewer ( 15 % ) said they were confused about the instructions they got for their treatment or other home care .
In a March 2013 Pew Research Center survey , 75 % of U.S. Catholics said that reforming the Vatican bureaucracy should be an important priority for Pope Francis . One-in-three Catholics ( 35 % ) said reform should be a `` top priority ; '' while 40 % said it was important but a `` lower priority ; '' 13 % said it is not too important or unnecessary .
As was the case in 2009 , most Mexicans ( 61 % ) say they would not move to the U.S. if they had the means and opportunity to do so . Among the sizeable minority ( 38 % ) who would move to the U.S. if they could , 53 % ( or , 20 % of the total population ) say they would be inclined to do so without authorization . ( For a more detailed analysis of Mexican immigration patterns , see `` The Mexican American Boom : Births Overtake Immigration , '' Pew Hispanic Center , released July 14 , 2011 . )
The Pew Research Center has tracked attitudes about this issue since 1993 . In September , public opinion was divided : 50 % said it was more important to control gun ownership while 46 % said it was more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns .
About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed news about the Anthony verdict very closely , though this was far and away the most closely followed story ( 37 % ) . The number following the verdict very closely is comparable to the 30 % that said they followed the verdict in the O.J . Simpson civil trial this closely in February 1997 . Women are much more likely than men to say the Anthony verdict was the story they followed most closely ( 45 % vs. 29 % ) . Another quarter ( 25 % ) say they followed news about the deficit and debt discussions in Washington very closely ; 14 % say this was the news they followed most closely . There is little difference in interest among partisans ( 30 % of Republicans , 27 % of Democrats and 23 % of independents say they followed this news very closely ) . But within the ranks of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents , those who agree with the Tea Party movement are much more likely than others to say they followed this news very closely ( 41 % vs. 21 % ) . Fully 15 % say they followed news about the launch of the final space shuttle mission very closely ; 5 % say this was their top story . News about the historic shuttle launch made up 5 % of coverage . Just 6 % say they very closely followed news about the sexual assault case against Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former head of the International Monetary Fund . This was the story followed most closely by 1 % . The Strauss-Kahn story made up 3 % of the newshole .
By more than two-to-one , Americans see more benefits than risks from greater involvement in the global economy . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) say greater involvement in the global economy is a good thing because it opens up new markets and opportunities for growth . Just 25 % say that it is bad for the country because it exposes the U.S. to risk and uncertainty . Large majorities across education and income categories – as well as most Republicans , Democrats and independents – have positive views of increased U.S. involvement in the world economy .
Most Biden supporters also express confidence that votes cast by absentee or mail-in ballot will be counted as intended : More than three-quarters ( 77 % ) say they are somewhat ( 47 % ) or very confident ( 30 % ) . By comparison , 36 % of Trump supporters say they are somewhat or very confident these votes will be counted as voters intended . And Trump backers are more than twice as likely to say they are not at all confident of this as they are to say they are very confident .
Master 's and bachelor 's degrees are the most common degrees pursued by newly enrolled foreign students in the U.S .
Beyond economic considerations , a majority ( 54 % ) of Hispanics say it has become more difficult in recent years to be Hispanic in the U.S . This feeling is even more pervasive among foreign-born Hispanics ( 64 % ) than among the U.S. born ( 44 % ) . And nearly four-in-ten Hispanics say they have experienced at least one of four offensive incidents in the past year because of their Hispanic background , although about as many note that someone has expressed support for them because they are Hispanic . For the 38 % of Hispanics who say they have experienced an incident , these comprise : experiencing discrimination or unfair treatment because of their Hispanic background , being criticized for speaking Spanish in public , being told to go back to their home country , or being called offensive names . Immigrant Hispanics are more likely than U.S.-born Hispanics to report they have experienced most of these incidents .
An estimated 464,000 Hispanics of Nicaraguan origin resided in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Nicaraguans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Nicaraguan origin ; this includes immigrants from Nicaragua and those who trace their family ancestry to Nicaragua . Nicaraguans are the 12th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for less than 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Nicaraguan-origin population has increased 128 % , growing from 203,000 to 464,000 over the period . At the same time , the Nicaraguan foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 63 % , up from 156,000 in 2000 to 255,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
NATO publics support economic aid , but do not favor arming Ukraine . Most people in the eight NATO countries surveyed ( a median of 70 % ) are happy to see Western countries send economic aid to Ukraine . Many also support Ukraine joining NATO and , in half the EU countries surveyed , favor Ukraine joining the European Union . But people in these NATO countries made it clear that they did not support sending arms to Ukraine – a median of just 41 % supported doing so . Skepticism about sending arms was highest in Germany , Spain and Italy , while support for arming Ukraine was more common in Poland , the U.S. and Canada .
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff receives overwhelmingly negative ratings for her handling of important issues facing the country . And while about half say the president is having a positive influence on the way things are going in the country , this is in sharp contrast to opinions of Rousseff 's predecessor and supporter , Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva , in the last year of his two-term presidency . In 2010 , more than eight-in-ten ( 84 % ) said Lula was having a positive impact on Brazil .
The Tea Party is less popular than ever , with even many Republicans now viewing the movement negatively . Overall , nearly half of the public ( 49 % ) has an unfavorable opinion of the Tea Party , while 30 % have a favorable opinion .
Caregivers are heavy technology users and are much more likely than other adults to take part in a wide range of health-related activities .
Republicans remain more skeptical than Democrats that Cuba will become more democratic in the next few years . Only about a third of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 34 % ) say Cuba will become more democratic ; 53 % say it will remain about the same as it is today , while 4 % say Cuba will become less democratic . By contrast , half of Democrats and Democratic leaners – including 56 % of liberal Democrats – say Cuba will become more democratic in the years ahead .
In 2013 , a record-high 12 % of newlyweds married someone of a different race , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of census data . ( This share does not take into account the `` interethnic '' marriages between Hispanics and non-Hispanics , which we covered in an earlier report on intermarriage . ) Some racial groups are more likely to intermarry than others . Of the 3.6 million adults who got married in 2013 , 58 % of American Indians , 28 % of Asians , 19 % of blacks and 7 % of whites have a spouse whose race was different from their own .
The country most likely to name the EU as the world 's top economy in the new survey is Germany , itself the world 's fifth-largest economy by GDP . Still , only one-in-four Germans say the countries of the EU are the world 's leading economic power , compared with 41 % who name China and 24 % who name the U.S .
While immigration has been at the forefront of a national political debate , the U.S. public holds a range of views about immigrants living in the country . Overall , a majority of Americans have positive views about immigrants . About two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) say immigrants strengthen the country `` because of their hard work and talents , '' while about a quarter ( 24 % ) say immigrants burden the country by taking jobs , housing and health care .
Following an election that generated great public interest , nearly nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) could correctly identify secretary of state as the job that President-elect Barack Obama has nominated Clinton to take on in his cabinet . More than eight-in-ten ( 82 % ) knew that the Democratic Party controls a majority of seats in the U.S. House of Representatives . Majorities could correctly answer several other questions on topics that have been in the news . More than three quarters ( 76 % ) knew that Guantanamo Bay is the site of a U.S . Naval Base that houses a military prison for suspected terrorists . Nearly as many ( 72 % ) could identify Nancy Pelosi as speaker of the House , virtually the same number as knew this in August 2007 . But at a time when the ups and downs of Wall Street have been regular front page news , just 45 % could correctly say that the Dow Jones Industrial Average was trading around 8,000 points . Respondents could choose from four possibilities .
Nuclear power has lost support over the past year . Currently , 38 % favor the increased use of nuclear power while 58 % are opposed . In March 2012 , opinion was more closely divided ( 44 % favor , 49 % oppose ) . As recently as February 2010 , significantly more favored ( 52 % ) than opposed ( 41 % ) the increased use of nuclear power .
Looking at the individual monthly surveys since December suggests that both political parties are facing declining membership in the wake of an engaging election cycle . In the Pew Research Center 's April 2009 survey , 33 % identified as Democrats , down from 39 % in December 2008 . Over the same period , the share calling themselves Republicans has fallen from 26 % to 22 % . By contrast , the number of independents has risen from 30 % in December to 39 % now . While it is not unusual for Republican and Democratic identification to grow over the course of an election and subside afterward , the magnitude of these changes is noteworthy . In announcing his change in party affiliation from Republican to Democrat yesterday , Pennsylvania Sen. Arlen Specter mentioned the changing composition of his state as a consideration . Across a typical year the Pew Research Center conducts well over 1,000 interviews in Pennsylvania , including 384 in the first four months of 2009 . The data , so far , support Sen. Specter 's contention . When he last ran for his seat in 2004 , 38 % of Pennsylvanians said they were Democrats , while 34 % identified as Republican . This year , the share identifying as Democrats is the same 38 % , but only 27 % call themselves Republicans . What had been a slim four-point Democratic identification advantage is now an eleven-point advantage .
A similar pattern emerges when looking at annual income : 16 % of those with an annual family income less than $ 30,000 say they feel lonely all or most of the time , compared with 9 % of middle-income adults and 6 % of higher-income adults . While loneliness is more common among some groups than others , the share of people who feel this way is fairly consistent across most major demographic groups . Roughly one-in-ten Americans say they feel lonely all or most of the time across gender , racial and ethnic , and age groups . There are few differences by community type or party affiliation . In addition , even parental status and the number of years spent living in a community are n't strongly correlated with feelings of loneliness or isolation .
When presented with a scenario in which a NATO member state is attacked by Russia , roughly six-in-ten Americans ( 62 % ) are willing to use military force to come to their ally 's defense . Such support is up 6 percentage points since 2015 . Men ( 67 % ) are more willing to do this than women ( 57 % ) . And Americans ages 50 and older ( 68 % ) are more supportive of such action than those 18 to 29 ( 57 % ) . Germany has the fourth-largest defense budget in NATO , but just 40 % of Germans believe that Germany should provide military force to defend a NATO ally if it is attacked by Russia . More than half ( 53 % ) do not support such aid . There are no significant partisan differences on this issue among Germans . Opposition to providing military assistance is particularly strong among German women ( 62 % ) . Men there are largely divided on the issue . Among people who live in the states that comprised the western Federal Republic of Germany , 43 % think Berlin should come to the aid of a NATO ally . Just 29 % of those from the eastern states that were once the German Democratic Republic agree . In Poland , the NATO member state in the survey in the closest proximity to Russia , 62 % of the public backs using military force to defend a NATO ally . Such sentiment has increased significantly since 2015 , when 48 % wanted their nation to come to an alliance country 's defense .
Here are five facts about how labor market activity among women and men with children at home has been affected in the first six months of the COVID-19 outbreak . The focus is on the shares of mothers and fathers who are working – employed and at work – in September 2020 and how that compares with where things stood in September 2019 . The shares of mothers and fathers who were employed and at work in September 2020 were smaller than in September 2019 . Among mothers , this share decreased from 69.0 % to 63.4 % and , among fathers , it decreased from 90.5 % to 85.6 % over this period . The drop in the share of mothers working was about the same as the drop among fathers , 5.6 vs. 4.9 percentage points .
For the first time in more than four decades of polling on the issue , a majority of Americans favor legalizing the use of marijuana . A national survey finds that 52 % say that the use of marijuana should be made legal while 45 % say it should not . Support for legalizing marijuana has risen 11 points since 2010 . The change is even more dramatic since the late 1960s . A 1969 Gallup survey found that just 12 % favored legalizing marijuana use , while 84 % were opposed .
Americans continued to closely track reports about the condition of the U.S. economy last week , though many also closely followed the dramatic rescue of a cargo ship captain held by Somali pirates off the coast of Africa . Close to half ( 48 % ) say they followed economic reports very closely , the same share as the previous week . For about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) , this was the most closely followed story of the week . Economic stories took up about 13 % of the newshole , separating out stories on state and local budget problems . The standoff between the U.S. Navy and Somali pirates reached its dramatic and deadly conclusion Sunday while the survey was still in the field , but still about a third ( 34 % ) say they followed reports about the cargo ship hijacking very closely ; another 35 % followed this story fairly closely . For 20 % , this was the most closely followed story of the week . Coverage of the pirate story took up 14 % of the newshole , according to PEJ . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed Obama 's trip to Turkey and Iraq most closely last week ; 23 % say they followed that story very closely , while 29 % say they followed the trip fairly closely . Obama 's overseas travels took up about 9 % of the newshole .
Debt-to-income ratios have increased for young student debtors , even as they have declined for other young households since 2008 . The typical young , college-educated student debtor household has debts equivalent to two years of income . Young , college-educated households with no student debt and less-educated households with student debt carry half this debt load , or the equivalent of one year of income .
For example , on abortion and gay marriage , about as many Republicans want the party to support a more conservative stance rather than move in a more moderate direction . On immigration , most Republicans tilt toward taking a more conservative approach . Among five issues tested , on only one – gun policy – do a majority of Republican voters say the party 's position is about right . But other polls show the Republicans remain pretty far away from the general electorate on gun policy .
One-quarter of U.S. adults overall ( 24 % ) say their faith has become stronger because of the coronavirus pandemic , while just 2 % say their faith has become weaker . The majority say their faith has n't changed much ( 47 % ) or that the question is n't applicable because they were not religious to begin with ( 26 % ) . Opinions on this question vary based on respondents ' religious affiliation and how religious they are . Christians are more likely than other religious groups in this analysis to say their faith has grown stronger as a result of the pandemic , a feeling that is reported by 56 % of Protestants in the historically black tradition , as well as by four-in-ten evangelicals ( 42 % ) and roughly one-quarter of Catholics ( 27 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 22 % ) .
The Latin America and Caribbean region was the world 's fastest-growing source of international migrants from 1990 through 2010 . However , growth in the number of emigrants from this region has slowed dramatically in recent years – due in large part to a slowdown of people leaving Mexico , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data . The global population of emigrants ( people living outside their country of birth ) from Latin American-Caribbean nations grew by 7 % between 2010 and 2017 , according to the analysis , which uses data from the United Nations and the U.S. Census Bureau . This is slower than the overall worldwide growth rate of 17 % during the same period . Other regions , meanwhile , saw faster growth than Latin America during the period , including the Middle East and North Africa ( 38 % increase ) and sub-Saharan Africa ( 32 % ) .
The overall level of voter interest in this campaign is much higher than it has been for recent midterms . Fully 61 % of voters say they have given a lot of thought to the election , while 33 % say they have followed campaign news very closely . This far surpasses interest in the 2002 and the 1998 campaigns , and even the historic 1994 election , when the Republicans gained control of Congress .
When asked about congressional leaders generally , a third of the public approves of the job Democratic ( 33 % approve ) and Republican leaders ( 31 % ) in Congress are doing .
Substantial numbers of Americans say they have difficulty affording some of life 's necessities . Six-in-ten say it is difficult for them and their families to afford gasoline , and smaller majorities say the same about saving for retirement ( 56 % ) and paying their taxes ( 51 % ) . Substantial minorities also say they have difficulty affording health care ( 45 % ) , utility bills ( 44 % ) , and health insurance ( 44 % ) . More than a quarter ( 27 % ) say they have trouble affording food .
Americans are more favorable toward the UN than not : 62 % have a positive view , while 31 % have a negative view . The U.S. public 's views of the organization have been relatively consistent in recent years . Still , there has been a large upward shift in approval from 2007 , when 48 % of Americans had a favorable view of the UN .
Despite differing quite clearly on China 's handling of COVID-19 , scholars and the U.S. public hold similar views concerning priorities for the U.S.-China relationship . About three-quarters among both groups say the U.S. should try to promote human rights in China , even if it harms economic relations between the two countries . In contrast , roughly a quarter of both IR scholars and the U.S. public say that the U.S. should prioritize strengthening economic relations with China , even if it means not addressing human rights issues .
The latest Pew Research Center survey of 1,919 adults conducted Sept. 5 - 10 ( with an additional poll of 1,150 conducted Sept. 12 - 16 ) shows there has been virtually no movement in the congressional ballot all year . The generic House ballot stands at the same statistical dead heat as in June , with Democrats holding a thin 46 % -44 % edge among registered voters . When the sample is narrowed to likely voters , the Republicans lead 47 % -46 % . While the congressional poll did not cover the period of Bush 's speeches on Sept. 11 and at the U.N. , neither his soaring job approval marks early this year nor his declining ratings in late summer have significantly affected the congressional race . In fact , presidential approval has no greater impact on the generic ballot than it did four years ago .
The laws seem to align with Russia 's rejection of homosexuality . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of Russians said homosexuality should not be accepted by society , while just 16 % said it should be accepted , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Globally , homosexuality was most accepted in Spain ( 88 % ) , Germany ( 87 % ) , the Czech Republic ( 80 % ) and Canada ( 80 % ) . A smaller majority of people in the United States ( 60 % ) also thought it should be accepted .
The chart above , however , does not contain the most recent federal budget data released by the government . Pasted below is a similar chart from the most recent OMB report — Budget of the U.S. Government : Fiscal Year 2011 ( PDF ) . You can find the chart in the section titled `` Summary Tables , '' and a host of other information about government spending in the full report . While this chart , unfortunately , does not contain the percentages of government spending by category , you can clearly see that the outlays for national defense ( labeled `` security discretionary '' ) are again clearly larger than the outlays for Medicare , net interest and all non-security discretionary spending ( which includes a small slice for education ) .
Traditionally , the federal government has played a relatively small role in prosecuting violent crime , which is more commonly handled by states and localities . This distinction is evident in the different compositions of the federal and state prison populations : While 53 % of all sentenced state prisoners are serving time for violent crimes , the same is true for just 7 % of sentenced federal inmates , according to the most recent data from the Bureau of Justice Statistics . In absolute numbers , that works out to about 700,000 state prisoners serving time for violent crimes , compared with only about 14,000 federal prisoners incarcerated for violent offenses . Since 2001 , the Justice Department 's prosecution priorities have changed . Immigration offenses , for instance , comprised just 15 % of all prosecutions in 2001 ; by 2016 , they accounted for 27 % . During the same period , drug crimes fell from 38 % to 32 % of all prosecutions , while property crimes declined from 20 % to 14 % .
In fact , Republicans and independents who lean to the GOP are just as likely as Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party to say that , overall , the benefits of the measles , mumps and rubella vaccine outweigh the risks ( 89 % and 88 % respectively ) .
On balance , publics in most of the EU member nations surveyed support Turkish membership in the organization . Majorities in Spain ( 62 % ) and Britain ( 51 % ) favor membership , as do pluralities in Lithuania ( 46 % ) and Poland ( 45 % ) . However , majorities hold the opposite view in two of the EU 's most powerful countries : Germany ( 71 % oppose ) and France ( 61 % ) .
The nationwide survey of 7,917 police officers in departments with at least 100 officers finds that many female officers think men in their department are treated better than women when it comes to assignments and promotions . About four-in-ten female officers ( 43 % ) say this is the case , compared with just 6 % of male officers . By contrast , a third of male officers say women are treated better than men when it comes to assignments and promotions in their department – but just 6 % of women say this is the case . Six-in-ten male officers and half of female officers say men and women are treated about the same .
College grads are more satisfied with their jobs : College-educated Millennials are more likely to see themselves on a career path , rather than just working at a job to get them by .
An increasing share of Indonesians describe the country 's current and future economic situation as good . Before Jokowi was elected , about six-in-ten ( 62 % ) said the economy was doing poorly , but by 2014 , more people rated the economic situation positively than negatively . As of last summer , about two-thirds said Indonesia 's economy was doing well . The share of Indonesians who say their current economic situation is good increased to almost two-thirds ( 65 % ) in 2018 . This positive sentiment stands in contrast with the state of the country 's currency , the rupiah , in 2018 – whose value depreciated to near record-low levels , edging close to values seen during the 1997 - 98 Asian financial crisis .
Sub-Saharan Africans ( a median of 68 % ) , Middle Easterners ( 61 % ) and Asians ( 57 % ) also report that those in the upper echelons of society have too much political influence . There are only two countries in the survey where fewer than four-in-ten believe the wealthy wield too much power – China ( 38 % ) and Vietnam ( 37 % ) , two nations still ruled by officially Communist parties . Roughly a quarter in both countries believe the rich should have more influence on their political system than they currently do .
Hillary Clinton is now officially the first woman to top the ticket of a major U.S. political party . Her candidacy and controversial comments about women made by Donald Trump have raised the question of whether a long-standing gender gap in American politics could grow wider in 2016 . In the 1972 and 1976 elections , there was no difference in candidate support between men and women . Over the last nine presidential elections , however , women have consistently voted for Democratic presidential candidates at higher rates than men . Most recently , in 2012 , there was a 10-percentage-point gender gap : 55 % of women voted for Democrat Barack Obama over Republican Mitt Romney , compared with 45 % of men . The gap in 2012 was little different than it had been in Ronald Reagan 's victory over Jimmy Carter in 1980 , when 45 % of women and just 36 % of men voted for Carter . The size of the gender gap has fluctuated within a relatively narrow range over the past 36 years ; on average , women have been 8 percentage points more likely than men to back the Democratic candidate in elections since 1980 .
More than a third of the public ( 35 % ) says they followed news about the latest federal deficit projections very closely and another 30 % reported following this news fairly closely . Interest in these economic stories cuts across income groups . Roughly equal proportions of high , middle and low income Americans reported following these two stories very closely .
Views are more positive when it comes to whether the U.S. and its allies will succeed or fail in their military campaign against ISIS . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) now say they think the U.S. and its allies will either definitely or probably succeed in their campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria , while just 27 % say they will definitely or probably fail . The share who say the U.S. and its allies will succeed is up 11 points from July ( from 55 % ) .
Americans continue to hold their local and state governments in fairly high esteem , but positive views of the federal government are at their lowest point in at least a decade . Only 37 % of people say they hold a favorable view of the federal government , while 58 % express an unfavorable opinion . By comparison , 59 % hold favorable views of their state governments and 63 % hold favorable views of their local governments , figures that have been essentially stable since 2002 .
While cuts to the government may have been unpopular , the public was not necessarily looking directly to Washington for answers on the economy either . The public started the decade and the recession in no mood for government regulation . In a September 1981 Gallup survey , fully 59 % said they opposed greater government intervention into business , siding with the argument that regulation impairs the workings of the free market system . Just 24 % favored greater government intervention to protect individuals from economic abuses . A 1981 CBS/New York Times poll found that two-thirds of Americans completely or mostly agreed that the government had gone too far in regulating business and interfering with the free enterprise system . This may have been the result of a lack of trust in the government . In 1982 , an American National Election Studies survey found 62 % said they trusted the government in Washington only sometimes and an additional 2 % said they never did . Only about a third said they trusted the feds most of the time ( 31 % ) or just about always ( 2 % ) . In a May 1983 Gallup poll , 51 % said big government was the biggest threat to the country 's future , while just 19 % cited big business and 18 % said big labor .
About half or more of the public approves of Modi 's handling of a range of domestic problems facing the country : helping the poor and dealing with unemployment ( both 62 % ) , handling terrorism ( 61 % ) and dealing with corruption ( 59 % ) .
The public is clearly dissatisfied with how the government has responded to the March 2011 crisis . Six-in-ten say they disapprove of how Tokyo has handled the overall recovery from the earthquake and tsunami , while only 37 % voice approval .
Many Americans remain uncomfortable with electing a president who does n't believe in God , as evidenced by a recent Pew Research survey . Asked about a list of traits and how each would impact their likelihood of supporting a presidential candidate , about half ( 53 % ) of Americans said they would be less likely to support an atheist .
The most frequently mentioned reason why people oppose legalization is that marijuana generally hurts society and is bad for individuals ( 43 % say this ) . And while many supporters of legalization say that marijuana is less dangerous than other drugs , 30 % of opponents have the opposite view : They point to the dangers of marijuana , including the possibility of abuse and addiction . About one-in-five opponents of legalization ( 19 % ) say marijuana is illegal and needs to be policed , 11 % say it is a gateway to harder drugs and 8 % say it is especially harmful to young people . A small share of opponents ( 7 % ) say that while the recreational use of marijuana should be illegal , they do not object to legalizing medical marijuana .
Younger adults are especially likely to reach for their phones when going online . Fully 58 % of 18-to 29-year-olds say they mostly go online through a smartphone , up from 41 % in 2013 . Still , this growth is evident across all age groups . For example , the share of adults ages 30 to 49 who say they mostly use a smartphone to go online has nearly doubled – from 24 % in 2013 to 47 % today .
Today , Eastern European countries like Kosovo and Albania still contribute to the overall flow of asylum seekers into the EU , Norway and Switzerland , but about half of refugees in 2015 trace their origins to just three countries : Syria , Afghanistan and Iraq . Conflicts , both fresh and long-standing , in each of these states have led to the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people . Some have been displaced within their homelands ; others have sought refuge in neighboring countries ; and still others have made the often perilous journey to Europe ( and elsewhere ) to seek asylum .
We examined foreign students ' growing presence on U.S. campuses , their countries of origin and their fields of study . During the 2013 - 2014 year , more than 886,000 students from other countries were enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities or doing `` optional practical training '' – work related to their field of study . The foreign student population grew 72 % from 1999 to 2013 , according to the New York-based Institute of International Education ; nearly all the increase came from Asian countries . China , as you might expect , is the single biggest source of foreign college students , and most of the increase over the past decade and a half can be attributed to Chinese students . In 2013 - 2014 , according to the IIE , 274,439 Chinese students were studying in the U.S. – 31 % of the total , and more than five times the number from 15 years ago . Put another way , 15 years ago , just over one of every 10 foreign students was Chinese ; last year , nearly one of every three were . According to a report in the journal Science , many Chinese families see U.S. higher education as a high-quality , affordable alternative to `` the rigid undergraduate training offered by most Chinese universities . ''
A majority ( 54 % ) continues to say the health care law has not had much of an effect on themselves or their families , though somewhat fewer say this than did so a year ago ( 63 % ) . Currently , about one-in-four ( 26 % ) see the health care law 's personal effect as mostly negative , while 19 % say it has been mostly positive .
Americans and Germans disagree , however , about whether the current U.S. and EU posture toward Russia over Ukraine is too tough , not tough enough or about right . Americans want to ratchet up the pressure , while most Germans do not support a tougher stance . More than half of Americans ( 54 % ) believe that U.S. policy toward Russia is not tough enough . And 59 % say the EU is not being strong enough . At the same time , roughly six-in-ten Germans ( 62 % ) think the U.S. position with regard to Russia is too tough ( 27 % ) or about right ( 35 % ) . Similarly , 62 % of Germans believe that EU actions against Russia are too strong ( 18 % ) or about right ( 44 % ) . Only 23 % of Germans think Washington is not tough enough . And 26 % believe the European Union is not aggressive enough .
The latest attempt by Beijing to woo European cooperation in investment partnerships is not China 's first foray into the region . In fact , all 10 countries surveyed have received billions of dollars from China across different industries since 2005 , according to an analysis of American Enterprise Institute 's China Global Investment Tracker .
Americans with relatively low levels of educational attainment tend to lean heavily on their smartphones for online access in general , and this also play out in the ways members of this group utilize their smartphones while looking for employment . Among Americans who have used a smartphone in some part of a job search , those with higher education levels are more likely to use their phone for basic logistical activities – such as calling a potential employer on the phone or emailing someone about a job . On the other hand , smartphone job seekers who have not attended college are substantially more likely to have used their phone for more advanced tasks , such as filling out an online job application or creating a resume or cover letter .
Social media networks are host to a wide range of human experiences ; they help connect people with one another in both good times and bad . Parents – in this study defined as those with children under 18 – are especially likely to try to respond to the good news others post , answer others ' questions or receive support via online networks . This is true for all kinds of personal matters they encounter – not just parenting posts . While somewhat less common , a majority of parents agree that they try to respond to bad news as well . Mothers are more likely than fathers to engage their networks across a variety of these outreach and support examples :
Virtually all Indians ( 95 % ) agreed that women should be able to work outside the home . But more than eight-in-ten ( 84 % ) said that when jobs are scarce , men `` should have more right to a job than women . '' That response made India stand out – it was among the highest percentages in the nations surveyed ; a similar percentage ( 82 % ) said this in Pakistan .
Even before the current campaign began , the American public had grown more ideologically polarized along partisan lines , as Pew Research Center documented in a major study . As of 2015 , 53 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents had political values that were mostly or consistently conservative , up from 31 % in 2004 . While Republicans have shifted to the right , Democrats have shifted to the left : In 2015 , 60 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents had values that were mostly or consistently liberal , compared with 49 % in 2004 and just 30 % in 1994 . In addition to ideological polarization , partisan animosity also increased substantially during this period .
Traditional left-right divisions play a bigger role than populist attitudes when it comes to views of the government 's role in ensuring a decent standard of living . In general , Western Europeans tend to say it is the government 's responsibility to ensure a decent standard of living for all : A median of 55 % across the eight countries surveyed hold this view ( though Germany is a notable exception ) . Left-right ideology is central to how people feel about this issue . Most of those on the political left place the responsibility on the government to guarantee that everyone has a decent standard of living , while many on the right say it is up to the individual . There tend to be smaller differences on this question between those with populist views and those with mainstream attitudes .
Asked why they had n't yet naturalized , the Center 's 2015 survey found that 35 % of Mexican and 23 % of other Latino immigrants with green cards identified personal barriers , such as a lack of English proficiency . Another common reason given was a lack of interest or just having not applied yet . About a third ( 31 % ) of Mexican lawful immigrants said this , while only 16 % of non-Mexican Latino immigrants said the same . An additional 13 % of Mexican and 19 % of non-Mexican lawful immigrants identified financial and administrative barriers , mainly the cost of naturalization .
The two biggest groups of the unemployed are people who 've lost their jobs permanently ( as opposed to those who are temporarily laid off or furloughed but expect to be recalled ) , and people who 've resumed their job search and thus are once again considered part of the labor force . Last month , according to BLS , 2.8 million Americans who re-entered the labor force but had n't yet found jobs were counted as unemployed . Those `` re-entrants , '' as the BLS calls them , made up 31.6 % of the total unemployed population – the highest level since before the Great Recession . That 's a sign the strengthening economy is making people who 've been on the economic sidelines confident enough about their job prospects to start looking again .
While there has been considerable attention on illegal immigration into the U.S. recently , opinions about legal immigration have undergone a long-term change . Support for increasing the level of legal immigration has risen , while the share saying legal immigration should decrease has fallen . The survey by Pew Research Center , conducted June 5 - 12 among 2,002 adults , finds that 38 % say legal immigration into the United States should be kept at its present level , while 32 % say it should be increased and 24 % say it should be decreased . Since 2001 , the share of Americans who favor increased legal immigration into the U.S. has risen 22 percentage points ( from 10 % to 32 % ) , while the share who support a decrease has declined 29 points ( from 53 % to 24 % ) .
Most never-married users of online dating platforms say they are currently using one of these services or have recently done so . Around a third of online daters who have never been married ( 34 % ) – which translates to 18 % of all never-married adults – say they are currently using a dating site or app . An additional 28 % say they are not currently using an online dating service but have done so in the past year . About four-in-ten online daters who have never tied the knot say that the last time they used a dating site or app was either between one and five years ago or more than five years ago . As one might expect , relatively few Americans who are married or living with a partner are currently active on dating platforms . Still , among those who say they have ever used an online dating platform , 5 % of cohabiting and 3 % of married people say they are currently using one of these services . That means 1 % of all married adults and 2 % of all cohabiting adults in the U.S. are current users of dating sites or apps .
Texting is by far the most frequent way teens interact with their romantic partner . Nearly three-quarters ( 72 % ) of teen daters say they spend time texting with their partner daily . Among teens who have had relationships , talking on the phone ( 39 % ) ranks second for everyday interactions , followed by instant messaging ( 29 % ) , being together in person ( 21 % ) , social media ( 21 % ) and messaging apps ( 20 % ) . Fewer teen daters interact daily with their romantic partner by video chatting , emailing or playing video games .
The size of the Mexican-origin population in the U.S. has risen dramatically over the past four decades as a result of one of the largest mass migrations in modern history . In 1970 , fewer than 1 million Mexican immigrants lived in the U.S. By 2000 , that number had grown to 9.8 million , and by 2007 it reached a peak of 12.5 million ( Pew Hispanic Center , 2011 ) . Since then , the Mexican-born population has declined as the arrival of new Mexican immigrants has slowed significantly ( Passel et al. , 2012 ) . Today , 35 % of Hispanics of Mexican origin were born in Mexico . And while the remaining two-thirds ( 65 % ) were born in the U.S. , half ( 52 % ) of them have at least one immigrant parent .
How hard would it be to give up your cellphone , the internet , your television or your landline telephone ? When the Pew Research Center 's Internet Project posed that question to Americans , they found that internet users were the most attached to their communication platform — and that landline users are now much less attached than they were just eight years ago . The survey asked Americans about a total of six different communication technologies : the internet , cellphones , television , email , landlines and social media . Over half of internet users now say the internet would be `` very hard '' to give up . And among this devoted group , 61 % said the internet was essential to them , either for work or other reasons . Translated to the whole population , 39 % of all Americans feel they absolutely need to have internet access . And while cellphone owners were pretty attached to their phones in 2006 ( 43 % said they would be very hard to give up ) , that attachment has since grown : 49 % would now have a very hard time giving them up . These findings contrast with a declining attachment to televisions and landline telephones . Only 35 % of Americans say they 'd have a very hard time giving up their television , down from 44 % in 2006 . And only 28 % of landline telephone owners would find it difficult to cut the cord , a sharp drop from the 48 % who said this in 2006 .
The Pew Hispanic analysis also finds that nearly half ( 46 % ) of unauthorized adult immigrants today—about 4.7 million people—are parents of minor children . By contrast , just 38 % of legal immigrant adults and 29 % of U.S.-born adults are parents of minor children .
Enthusiasm for trade was particularly strong in Africa , the poorest continent , where majorities in 6 of the 10 countries surveyed said trade was very good for their nations . As might be expected , international commerce was also popular among upper income people , who in Brazil , France , Mexico and the United States , were twice as likely as the poor to think trade was very beneficial . Nevertheless , for most of the world 's people , their support for trade was guarded . The public was more likely to see international commerce as somewhat good , not very good for their country in nations as disparate as Brazil , China and Great Britain .
As in 2006 , we asked a battery of questions about the different kinds of personal information that may be available about the respondent online . The introduction to the question reads : `` We 'd like to know if any of the following information about you is available on the internet for others to see—it does n't matter if you posted it yourself or someone else posted it . '' Respondents were also given the option to say that they did not know whether a given piece of information was available , and for many questions , respondents expressed a high level of uncertainty . While the affirmative answers paint a portrait of the user 's impression of what is available , they likely do not reflect the full extent to which these pieces of information could be uncovered by a motivated searcher . In addition , some of these items could be available publicly while others may be posted to a restricted profile or website . Read more »
For independents who lean toward a party , the belief that the other party 's policies are harmful is the most frequently cited reason for their partisan leaning . Nearly six-in-ten Republican-leaning independents ( 58 % ) and Democratic leaners ( 57 % ) say a major reason for leaning to the Republican and Democratic parties , respectively , is a feeling that the other party 's policies are harmful for the country .
So far , Americans are less concerned about how the new coronavirus is affecting their health , finances and local communities . Still , 27 % say the coronavirus is a major threat to their personal health , while 51 % say it is a minor threat . Only 22 % says it does not threaten their personal health .
Western homeowners are particularly likely to say they have already installed or are considering solar panels at home . Some 14 % of homeowners in the West say they have installed solar panels at home . Another 52 % of Western homeowners say they have considered installing home solar panels in the past year .
White voters were more likely than Black or Hispanic voters to say they had gotten political news from Trump and his campaign in the past week . Three-in-ten white voters said this , compared with 23 % of Hispanic and 18 % of Black voters . On the other hand , Black voters ( 32 % ) were more likely than white or Hispanic voters ( 23 % each ) to say they 'd gotten news from Biden or his campaign in the past week .
By contrast , among Democratic candidate supporters , the share saying they are very confident their own vote will be counted accurately is significantly higher than in 2008 or 2004 . Two-thirds of Clinton supporters are very confident their vote will be accurately counted today , compared with about half of Barack Obama 's supporters in 2008 ( 52 % ) and John Kerry 's supporters in 2004 ( 48 % ) .
In the survey conducted Dec. 15 - 18 , three stories topped the public 's news interest . Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed news about the economic situation most closely , while 17 % each say their top story was either the candidates for president in 2012 or the child sex abuse scandal at Penn State .
The Pew Hispanic survey also explored the reasons Hispanic immigrants who are legal permanent residents have n't yet tried to become citizens . According to the survey , when asked in an open-ended question why they had not naturalized thus far , 45 % identified either personal barriers ( 26 % ) , such as a lack of English proficiency , or administrative barriers ( 18 % ) , such as the financial cost of naturalization .
By contrast , nearly identical percentages of Democrats ( 56 % ) , Republicans ( 57 % ) and independents ( 59 % ) have a favorable opinion of their state 's government . Similarly , local governments receive positive ratings from 67 % of Democrats , 63 % of Republicans and 60 % of independents . Read more
Other news stories last week garnered less interest . Fewer than two-in-ten ( 16 % ) closely followed news about recreational marijuana shops that opened legally in Colorado , while 13 % followed news about a research ship that was trapped in ice off Antarctica . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) followed either violence in Syria or the two terrorist bombings that struck Russia .
Actual executions — which , given the many years that typically elapse between sentencing and execution , are something of a lagging indicator — peaked in 1999 , when 98 people were put to death . But they too have fallen , to an average of about 43 over the past decade . ( So far this year , 14 people have been executed around the country , according to the Death Penalty Information Center . )
Overall , 39 % of the public say they paid very close attention to news about Obama 's policy allowing certain immigrants living in the U.S. illegally to remain in the country . A third ( 33 % ) tracked news about the outbreak of the Ebola virus very closely while about as many ( 31 % ) tracked news about the Islamic militant group known as ISIS .
In a Pew Research Center survey from April , only 6 % of Americans said the economy was recovering strongly . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) said the economy was recovering , but not very strongly ; about a quarter ( 26 % ) said it was n't recovering at all . The same survey found that Americans ' financial self-assessment had barely budged since June 2009 , when the recession officially ended : 37 % rated their financial situation `` excellent '' or `` good , '' 39 % `` only fair , '' and 23 % `` poor . ''
Between 1990 and 2015 , the total number of people born in Somalia but living outside the country more than doubled , from about 850,000 to 2 million . The share of Somali migrants abroad grew 136 % between 1990 and 2015 , according to United Nations estimates . At the same time , the population of Somalia itself has grown less quickly at 71 % , increasing from 6.3 million in 1990 to 10.8 million in 2015 . ( The global Somali diaspora includes all migrants , both refugees and other migrants . )
The relative popularity of Latinx in online searches in the U.S. has increased since 2016 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Google Trends data .3 While its earliest Google searches extend back to the early 2000s , the highest monthly relative number of searches for Latinx occurred in June 2020 , surpassing a previous peak in October 2019 . Compared with June 2020 , monthly Google searches for Latinx rose substantially for the first time in June 2016 , following the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando , Florida . Despite its increase in popularity , Google searches for Latinx remain below those for Latina , Latino and Hispanic over the past decade . Among these terms , Latina has shown the highest popularity , though its share of searches has been falling relative to its peak in June 2014 .
Americans see cellphone use as OK in key public spaces , but not in more private or intimate gatherings . For instance , about three-quarters of Americans think it is generally acceptable for people to use their cellphones while walking down the street ( 77 % ) , on public transit ( 75 % ) or waiting in line ( 74 % ) . But only 38 % think it is generally OK to use cellphones at restaurants , and very few say cellphone use is OK at a family dinner ( 12 % ) , during a meeting ( 5 % ) or at church ( 4 % ) .
Conservative Republicans and Republican leaners are far more likely to say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases than to say that it should be legal ( 77 % vs. 22 % ) . Among moderate and liberal Republicans , 57 % say abortion should be legal , while 41 % say it should be illegal . The vast majority of liberal Democrats and Democratic leaners support legal abortion ( 91 % ) , as do three-quarters of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 75 % ) .
Two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say it is very or somewhat important to establish a way for most immigrants in the country illegally to remain here legally , according to the survey , which comes as the Supreme Court evaluates the Trump administration 's decision to end a program that has protected from deportation nearly 800,000 unauthorized immigrants who arrived in the United States as children . Sizable majorities of Americans also rate other policy goals as important : 68 % say it is very or somewhat important to increase security along the U.S.-Mexico border , and 73 % say it is important to take in refugees escaping war and violence . The public is more closely divided on the importance of increasing deportations of unauthorized immigrants , with 54 % saying this is a very or somewhat important goal and 45 % saying it is not too or not at all important .
These online announcements , however , are still very much in the minority . Since the 2004 election cycle , 27 of the 41 candidates who appeared in the Republican or Democratic presidential primary debates ( or have announced for 2016 ) included a public address in their formal announcement , according to our calculations . ( Sometimes , candidates have also made the announcement on some other platform , as in 2003 when former Sen. John Edwards , a North Carolina Democrat , announced on The Daily Show before giving a formal speech . ) In that election cycle , twice as many Republican candidates ( eight ) made their announcements through a TV or radio appearance than did through formal speeches ( four ) . And this was not simply `` dark horse '' candidates looking for a gimmick : former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani announced on Larry King Live , and former Arkansas Gov . Mike Huckabee announced on NBC 's Meet the Press . Two GOP contenders launched their campaigns on late-night comedy shows that cycle : Sen. John McCain of Arizona confirmed his run on Late Show with David Letterman , and Thompson followed up an online video with an announcement on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno .
Friends and family are an important source of news , but Americans still count more on news organizations . Online news consumers are about twice as likely to often get news online from news organizations as they are from friends and family , and they find that news somewhat more accurate and just as near to their interests . Beyond just online news , Americans place as much trust in the information they get from news organizations as they do in information coming from family and friends – though there is a not a lot of trust placed in either . Only about two-in-ten trust information from local or national news organizations `` a lot , '' and 14 % say the same of information from family and friends . At least three-quarters express some or a lot of trust in the information from each . Americans express much more caution about news coming through social media . Although 62 % of adults get news on these platforms , just 4 % of web-using adults trust the information they get there a lot , and 30 % trust it some . This wariness could be tied to the clear distinction the public draws between news they get online from people they are close with and those they are not : News from people they are not close with receives much lower marks for accuracy and relevance .
Most people in the countries we surveyed say rich nations should do more than developing nations to address climate change . A median of 54 % agree with the statement `` Rich countries , such as the U.S. , Japan and Germany , should do more than developing countries because they have produced most of the world 's greenhouse gas emissions so far . '' A median of just 38 % think `` developing countries should do just as much as rich countries because they will produce most of the world 's greenhouse gas emissions in the future . '' Notably , the U.S. is among a small group of countries in which half or more believe developing countries should do just as much – half of Americans hold this view , while only four-in-ten want rich countries to shoulder more of the costs .
Students throughout the United States and Europe face many similar tasks throughout their education , from preparing for exams to writing papers . But there are glaring differences when it comes to foreign language education – or lack thereof – and the result is that far lower shares of American students study a foreign language . Learning a foreign language is a nearly ubiquitous experience for students throughout Europe , driven in part by the fact that most European countries have national-level mandates for formally studying languages in school . No such national standard exists in the U.S. , where requirements are mostly set at the school district or state level . Overall , a median of 92 % of European students are learning a language in school . Most primary and secondary school students across Europe study at least one foreign language as part of their education , according to Eurostat , the statistics arm of the European Commission . Of the 29 European nations for which data are available , 24 have a foreign language learning rate of at least 80 % , with 15 of those reaching 90 % or more of students enrolled in language courses . In three of the four countries with the smallest student populations – Luxembourg , Malta and Liechtenstein – 100 % of students are reported to be learning a foreign language .
Relatively few Japanese are upbeat about their country 's direction . Just one-in-five are satisfied with the way things are going in Japan , while nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) are dissatisfied . The degree of dissatisfaction is up slightly from last year ( 72 % ) , and is notably higher in areas near the quake zone ( 86 % ) than in the rest of the country ( 72 % ) .
And most believe that increasing automation will have negative consequences for jobs . Large majorities think automation will make it difficult for ordinary people to find a job and will deepen economic inequality . Relatively few predict the economy will become more efficient or that new , better-paying jobs will be created by technological advances .
Revelations in September 2013 that the U.S. government had monitored the private communications of Brazil 's President Dilma Rousseff had strained relations between the two countries . But Rousseff 's arrival in the U.S. this week for a meeting with President Barack Obama comes at a time when public sentiment about the U.S. in Brazil has almost fully returned to the overwhelmingly positive opinions held before the surveillance controversy . Nearly three-quarters of Brazilians ( 73 % ) have a favorable view of the U.S. – the highest level of approval among the Latin American countries surveyed , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Young people ages 18 - 29 ( 84 % ) and those with more education ( 80 % ) are especially likely to express pro-American sentiments . In our 2013 survey , fielded before the Edward Snowden revelations , 73 % of Brazilians also had a positive view of the U.S . But ratings dropped 8 percentage points in 2014 to 65 % before rebounding this year .
The world was home to nearly half a million centenarians ( people ages 100 and older ) in 2015 , more than four times as many as in 1990 , according to United Nations estimates . And this growth is expected to accelerate : Projections suggest there will be 3.7 million centenarians across the globe in 2050 .
• Local TV newscasts are profitable and budgets in newsrooms have grown . About two thirds ( 66 % ) of news directors said their stations made a profit on news in 2012 , the highest percentage since 1994 when that data was first available . In the vast majority of TV newsrooms , budgets either grew ( 49 % ) or held steady ( 39 % ) in 2012 . Only 6 % of news directors said they had to make cuts , compared with 17 % the year before .
Though about three-quarters of both Democrats ( 76 % ) and Republicans ( 78 % ) view their own party favorably , Democratic ratings of their own party have become less positive in the last few months ( in October , 85 % of Democrats had a favorable view of their own party ) . And today independents ' views of the two parties are about the same . About a third have favorable impressions of either the Republican Party ( 32 % ) or the Democratic Party ( 33 % ) ; in October , more independents viewed the Democratic Party ( 41 % ) positively than the Republican Party ( 33 % ) .
As has been the case for the last year , about two-thirds of the public ( 68 % ) say that the economy is recovering , but not strongly . Today , about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) see a strong economic recovery ; roughly two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say the economy is n't recovering at all . The share saying there is a strong recovery is somewhat lower than it was in January ( 16 % then , 11 % today ) , but remains higher than in April 2014 ( when just 6 % said the economy was recovering strongly ) .
Some 1.2 million Millennial women gave birth for the first time in 2016 , according to National Center for Health Statistics data , raising the total number of U.S. women in this generation who have become mothers to more than 17 million .
White and Hispanic Catholics are very different politically . Nearly six-in-ten White Catholic registered voters ( 57 % ) identify with or lean toward the Republican Party , marking a big shift since 2008 , when four-in-ten ( 41 % ) supported the GOP . Most Hispanic Catholic voters ( 68 % ) , meanwhile , identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , a share that has remained fairly stable in the past decade . ( Two-thirds of Catholic registered voters are White , while a quarter are Hispanic , according to data collected in 2018 and 2019 . ) Catholics ' views of Trump are clearly divided by race and ethnicity . In a poll conducted in late July and early August – amid a surge in U.S. coronavirus cases – 54 % of White Catholics overall said they approve of Trump 's performance as president , but 69 % of Hispanic Catholics said they disapprove of the way he is handling his job . And 59 % of White Catholic registered voters said they would vote for Trump , or lean that way , if the election were held today ; among Hispanic Catholic registered voters , 65 % said they would vote for Biden today . There was a similar divide in the last presidential election : 64 % of White Catholics voted for Trump in 2016 , according to a Pew Research Center survey of validated voters conducted at the time , while 78 % of Hispanic Catholics voted for Clinton .
Americans today are more likely to say they personally hope the United States will elect a female president in their lifetime – 45 % say this , up from 38 % in November 2014 . Half of the public says it does not matter to them if the U.S. elects a female president .
Both the public and the media focused heavily on the January shootings in Tucson that left six dead and Rep. Gabrielle Giffords severely injured . Public interest stayed relatively high on this story , though coverage fell off more quickly as the media moved on to other developing stories – especially the growing unrest in the Middle East . As the protests swelled in Cairo 's Tahrir Square – along with occasional outbreaks of violence – interest and coverage of the protests in Egypt ramped up quickly . After then-President Hosni Mubarak stepped down Feb. 11 , the focus of coverage shifted to unrest elsewhere in the region . The percentage of the public saying they were following news about Egypt more closely than any other news fell off as well . Few closely followed voting last week on a new constitution .
Big house , small house . Our studies of political polarization and partisan antipathy both found that the disagreements between Republicans and Democrats go far beyond political values and issues . They also have markedly different preferences about where they would like to live . Most Republicans ( 65 % ) say they would rather live in a community where houses are larger and farther apart and where schools and shopping are not nearby . A majority of Democrats ( 61 % ) prefer smaller houses within walking distance of schools and shopping .
Americans remain divided on the issue of encryption : 46 % believe that the government should be able to access encrypted communications when investigating crimes , while 44 % believe that technology companies should be able to use encryption tools that are unbreakable even to law enforcement . Democrats and younger adults tend to express greater support for strong encryption , while Republicans tend to express greater support for encryption protocols that can be accessed by law enforcement in the context of criminal investigations .
In this survey , Americans were asked specifically about how they would respond to outreach by public health officials trying to contact them to speak about the coronavirus outbreak . Half of respondents were asked how likely they would be to speak with a public health official on the phone or via text message about the coronavirus outbreak , and the remainder were asked how they would respond to a public health official who showed up at their residence . About four-in-ten Americans ( 41 % ) who were asked about their likelihood of speaking with a public health official if they contacted them by phone or text message say that they would be not at all or not too likely to do this , and 40 % of those asked about speaking with an official who showed up at their residence say they would be not at all or not too likely to do the same . There are also differences in people 's reported likelihood of speaking with a public health official by income and education . For instance , 30 % of Americans with a bachelor 's degree or higher say they would be not at all or not too likely to speak by phone or text message , compared with 44 % of those with some college and 48 % of those with a high school diploma or less ; and 35 % of those with at least a bachelor 's degree say they would be not at all or not too likely to speak in person , compared with 42 % each of those with a high school diploma or less or some college . A similar pattern applies by income . Those with relatively low and middle incomes are less likely to say they 'd be likely to speak with a public health official about the coronavirus outbreak compared with those from households with the highest incomes .
For example , among those who have heard of CNN but did not get news there , expressions of trust and distrust are roughly equal – 37 % trust and 33 % distrust . ( Fully 80 % of those who heard of it and consumed it say they trust it . ) PBS , however ( trusted by 84 % of those who got news there in the past week ) , was roughly twice as trusted as distrusted outside its core audience ( 34 % v. 16 % ) .
In the year 2000 only 5 % of households had broadband access . Now , two-thirds of Americans have broadband at home . One Pew Internet study found that dial-up users take part in an average of 3 activities per day while broadband users take part in 7 .
Overall interest in the news has implications for how news media landscapes develop alongside technological change . Large majorities around the world say they follow national and local news closely ( global medians of 86 % and 78 % respectively ) . In all 38 countries , more than two-thirds say this of news about their own country . The same is true of news about their city or town in 32 countries . People are much less interested in news about other countries ( global median of 57 % ) . In only six countries do more than two-thirds say they pay close attention to news about the rest of the world . People outside of the U.S. express a similarly low level of interest in news specifically about the U.S. ( 48 % ) .
In other areas , however , there is less unity . For instance , a Pew Research Center survey of Muslims in 39 countries asked Muslims whether they want sharia law , a legal code based on the Quran and other Islamic scripture , to be the official law of the land in their country . Responses on this question vary widely . Nearly all Muslims in Afghanistan ( 99 % ) and most in Iraq ( 91 % ) and Pakistan ( 84 % ) support sharia law as official law . But in some other countries , especially in Eastern Europe and Central Asia – including Turkey ( 12 % ) , Kazakhstan ( 10 % ) and Azerbaijan ( 8 % ) – relatively few favor the implementation of sharia law .
The data suggest they have a tough road ahead . While single copy sales of the New Republic ( considered the most objective measure of a magazine 's print appeal ) more than doubled from the fourth quarter of 2012 to the first half of 2013 , following Facebook founder Chris Hughes ' purchase of the magazine , they have steadily declined since . Between the first and second halves of 2013 , newsstand sales fell by 57 % , and fell a further 20 % in the first half of 2014 , according to the Alliance for Audited Media . The New Republic 's troubles are reflected in the data for its fellow niche news magazines , which all target an elite audience consisting of older , educated and wealthier readers . Looking at three comparable magazines ( The Atlantic , The New Yorker and The Economist ) , the digital side of the business has been making some gains , but single copy sales for this group were down or flat since 2008 , according to the Alliance for Audited Media . For the first half of 2014 , The Atlantic saw its sales rise 20 % from a year before . The New Yorker , however , fell 5 % during the same period , while The Economist fell 16 % .
Following an election that generated great public interest , nearly nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) could correctly identify secretary of state as the job that President-elect Barack Obama has nominated Clinton to take on in his cabinet . More than eight-in-ten ( 82 % ) knew that the Democratic Party controls a majority of seats in the U.S. House of Representatives . Majorities could correctly answer several other questions on topics that have been in the news . More than three quarters ( 76 % ) knew that Guantanamo Bay is the site of a U.S . Naval Base that houses a military prison for suspected terrorists . Nearly as many ( 72 % ) could identify Nancy Pelosi as speaker of the House , virtually the same number as knew this in August 2007 . But at a time when the ups and downs of Wall Street have been regular front page news , just 45 % could correctly say that the Dow Jones Industrial Average was trading around 8,000 points . Respondents could choose from four possibilities .
Looking at a comprehensive analysis based on the results of many questions , we also find that criticism of political leaders is a principal driver of distrust in government . The Pew surveys found that criticism of political leaders is as important an element in the distrust equation as the view that government does a poor job in running its programs . Cynicism about political leaders and the political system is more crucial to distrust than concerns about the proper role of government , worries about its power and intrusiveness , misgivings about its priorities or resentment about taxes .
This analysis is based upon recently released data from the 2013 American Community Survey ( ACS ) , and focusses on adults who have married in the past 12 months . Due to data limitations , individuals in same-sex marriages are not analyzed .
There is a wide gulf between Christians and Muslims in their views of the political system . Only 16 % of Christians in Nigeria are satisfied with the way democracy functions in their country , while a large majority ( 83 % ) is unsatisfied . Meanwhile , 62 % of Muslims are happy with the state of their democracy , and 38 % are unsatisfied .
Voters are reporting roughly similar levels of contact from political campaigns and groups as four years ago , with one notable exception . The share of voters who say they have received a phone call about the election has fallen 12 points since mid-October 2010 , from 59 % to 47 % . This decline has been driven by a fall in the percentage saying they have gotten pre-recorded campaign calls , or robo-calls . Just 41 % of registered voters say they have gotten a pre-recorded call about the elections , down from 55 % in mid-October 2010 . About one-in-five ( 22 % ) say they have received a live campaign call , the same as at this point in the 2010 campaign . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 15 - 20 among 2,003 adults , including 1,494 registered voters , finds that other forms of campaign outreach appear to be close to levels measured in 2010 . Nearly two-thirds of voters ( 65 % ) say they have gotten printed mail from candidates or political groups , down from 71 % in mid-October 2010 ; 30 % have gotten an email , compared with 26 % then . Slightly fewer voters say they have been visited at home by someone than did so four years ago ( 14 % now , 18 % then ) . And the share of voters receiving text messages from candidates or political groups has remained flat ( at 4 % ) since 2010 .
Social media and direct visits to news organizations ' websites are the most common pathways to online news . When asked how they arrived at news content in their most recent web interaction , online news consumers were about equally likely to say they got news by going directly to a news website ( 36 % of the times they got news , on average ) as they were to say they got it through social media ( 35 % ) . They were less likely to access news through emails , text messages or search engines .
Last week , the public continued to track economic news more closely than other major stories . More than three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they followed reports about the condition of the economy most closely , while two-in-ten say they followed reports about the hijacking of a U.S. cargo ship by Somali pirates more closely than any other story . A separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) found those two stories received the most coverage as well . Economic news took up 13 % of the newshole ( counting stories about state and local budget troubles separately ) . The standoff between Somali pirates and the U.S. Navy – and its dramatic conclusion on April 12 – took up 14 % .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted June 16 - 22 among 4,708 adults using the Center 's American Trends Panel , finds that a sizable majority ( 87 % ) thinks that the actions of ordinary Americans have a great deal or fair amount of impact on how the coronavirus spreads in the U.S. Nearly six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 59 % ) say ordinary Americans have a great deal of impact on the spread of the coronavirus , but while 73 % of Democrats think the actions of ordinary people matter a great deal in affecting its spread , only 44 % of Republicans say the same . These questions can be explored using the Center 's Pathways data tool .
When should women who want to advance professionally have children ? The public is split — 36 % say that having kids early in her career is the way to go for a woman who wants to `` reach a top executive position , '' while 40 % say it 's better for a woman to hold off until she 's well established in her career . And another one-fifth say that women who want to advance up the career ladder should not have kids at all , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
The aftermath of Hurricane Irene was the top story for the public and the media last week , as flooding worsened in many East Coast states well after the storm winds had died down . More than a third of the public ( 36 % ) say that the impact of the hurricane was the news they followed most closely . Another 23 % say news about the struggling economy was their top story , according to the latest News Interest Index survey , conducted Sept. 1 - 4 among 1,001 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . News about Irene accounted for 20 % of the coverage analyzed by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , making Irene the most covered story of the week . News about the economy was not far behind , making up 16 % of coverage .
The use of affirmative action programs in college admissions has roiled campuses and the public for years , leading to state-passed laws banning the practice and to today 's Supreme Court ruling upholding a Michigan voter initiative banning the use of racial preferences . But while the debate and the battles continue , a new Pew Research Center poll finds that Americans overwhelmingly support these programs . Americans say by roughly two-to-one ( 63 % to 30 % ) that affirmative action programs designed to increase the number of black and minority students on college campuses are a `` good thing , '' according to the survey conducted Feb. 27-Mar . 16 . This was almost the same result Pew Research found in 2003 . While a majority ( 55 % ) of whites support affirmative action programs on campus , that compares with 84 % of blacks who believe they are a good thing and 80 % of Hispanics . Nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) Democrats back the programs as a good thing , as do 62 % of independents ; Republicans are mixed , with 50 % seeing the racial preferences as a bad thing and 43 % viewing them as a good thing .
Across the 18 countries surveyed by Pew in both 2009 and 2011 , the median percentage saying China will replace or already has replaced the U.S. as the world 's leading superpower increased from 40 % in 2009 to 47 % two years later . Meanwhile , the median percentage saying China will never replace the U.S. fell from 44 % to 36 % .
Most black and Asian adults ( 63 % and 66 % , respectively ) say race or race relations come up in their conversations with family and friends at least sometimes , compared with about half of white ( 50 % ) and Hispanic ( 49 % ) adults . Blacks are more likely than other racial or ethnic groups to say these topics come up often ; 27 % of black adults say this compared with 11 % of white , 15 % of Hispanic and 13 % of Asian adults .
As previous Pew Research Center surveys have illustrated , ideas at the core of liberal democracy remain popular among global publics , but commitment to democracy can nonetheless be weak . Multiple factors contribute to this lack of commitment , including perceptions about how well democracy is functioning . And as findings from a new Pew Research Center survey show , views about the performance of democratic systems are decidedly negative in many nations . Across 27 countries polled , a median of 51 % are dissatisfied with how democracy is working in their country ; just 45 % are satisfied .
People are also suspicious of American power . In a 2004 Pew poll , majorities or pluralities in seven of the nine countries surveyed said the U.S.-led war on terrorism was not really a sincere effort to reduce international terrorism . This was true not only in Muslim countries such as Morocco and Turkey , but in France and Germany as well . The true purpose of the war on terrorism , according to these skeptics , is American control of Middle East oil and U.S. domination of the world .
The wireless-only lifestyle is especially predominant among the poor and the young . According to the CDC , nearly two-thirds ( 65.6 % ) of adults ages 25 - 29 lived in households with only wireless phones , as did three-in-five ( 59.9 % ) 30- to 34-year-olds and a majority ( 54.3 % ) of adults ages 18 - 24 . A majority of adults living in poverty ( 54.7 % ) lived in a wireless-only household , versus 47.5 % of what the CDC calls the `` near-poor '' and 35.3 % of non-poor adults ; wireless-only households also predominate among Hispanics , renters and adults living with roommates . ( Some of those categories overlap , of course . )
During the first decade of this century , the world experienced a dramatic drop in the number of people living in poverty and a significant rise in the number who could be considered middle income , according to a new Pew Research Center report . But the majority of the global population remains low income . The world 's middle-income population – people living on $ 10 - 20 per day – nearly doubled , increasing by 386 million from 2001 to 2011 . In the 111 countries included in the report , some 783 million people were middle income in 2011 , compared with 398 million in 2001 . Looked at by share , the global middle class increased from 7 % of the world 's population in 2001 to 13 % in 2011 .
Women are more likely than men to categorize certain information as essential to see in other users ' profiles . Among online daters , 72 % of women say it was very important to them that the profiles they looked at included the type of relationship the person was looking for , compared with about half of men ( 53 % ) . Women who have online dated are also more likely than men to say it was very important to them that the profiles they looked through included a person 's religious beliefs ( 32 % vs. 18 % ) , occupation ( 27 % vs. 8 % ) or height ( 22 % vs. 8 % ) .
Obama 's current job rating of 49 % is higher than George W. Bush 's rating in June 2005 ( 42 % ) , but lower than Bill Clinton 's job measure in June 1997 ( 54 % ) .
There is broad support – across racial groups and among members of both political parties – for the idea of police officers being outfitted with body cameras to record their encounters with people . Fully 87 % , including 90 % of blacks and 85 % of whites , think it is a good idea for police to wear body cameras .
More Millennial households are in poverty than households headed by any other generation . In 2016 , an estimated 5.3 million of the nearly 17 million U.S. households living in poverty were headed by a Millennial , compared with 4.2 million headed by a Gen Xer and 5.0 million headed by a Baby Boomer . The relatively high number of Millennial households in poverty partly reflects the fact that the poverty rate among households headed by a young adult has been rising over the past half century while dramatically declining among households headed by those 65 and older . In addition , Millennials are more racially and ethnically diverse than the other adult generations , and a greater share of Millennial households are headed by minorities , who tend to have higher poverty rates . Millennial heads of households are also more likely to be unmarried , which is associated with higher poverty . About half of cohabiting-couple households are headed by a Millennial . Since 2011 , Millennials have headed more households made up of unmarried partners than any other adult generation . By 2016 , Millennials were heads of 4.2 million of an estimated 8.3 million cohabiting-couple households . The greater prevalence of cohabitation among Millennial households partly reflects that Millennials are more likely to live with a romantic partner than earlier generations of young adults . For example , in 2012 , among women ages 25 to 29 who were living with a spouse or partner , 37 % were cohabiting . By comparison , in 1987 – when Boomers were at a comparable age to Millennials – just 10 % of 25- to 29-year-old women in a union were cohabiting .
The public , voters and non-voters alike , has a subdued reaction to the Republican Party 's midterm election victory . Four years ago , the response to the Democrats regaining full control of Congress was far more positive , as it was in 1994 when the GOP won a historic victory . Fewer people today say they are happy about the Republican victory , approve of the GOP 's plans for the future , and far fewer believe Republicans will be successful in getting their programs passed into law . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Nov. 4 - 7 among 1,255 adults , finds 48 % saying they are happy that the Republican Party won control of the House while 34 % are unhappy . Four years ago , 60 % said they were happy the Democrats won full control of Congress , compared with just 24 % who were unhappy . That mirrored the public 's reaction in December 1994 to the GOP winning control of Congress for the first time in 40 years ( 57 % happy vs. 31 % unhappy ) . In the current survey , 52 % of those who said they voted in the Nov. 2 election were happy with the outcome compared with 42 % of non-voters . Still , more voters in 2006 – 60 % – said they were happy with the Democrats ' victory . The public has a mixed reaction to the Republican policies and plans for the future : 41 % approve , while nearly as many ( 37 % ) disapprove . Approval is somewhat greater among voters ( 45 % ) than among non-voters ( 35 % ) . But on balance , both the general public and voters express less positive views of the GOP 's policies than they did of the Democrats ' proposals after the 2006 election .
Millions of Baby Boomers retire each year from the U.S. labor force . But in the past year the number of retired Boomers increased more than in prior years , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of monthly labor force data . The recent increase in the share of Boomers who are retired is more pronounced among Hispanic and Asian American Boomers and those residing in the Northeast . This is 3.2 million more Boomers than the 25.4 million who were retired in the same quarter of 2019 . Until this year , the overall number of retired Boomers had been growing annually by about 2 million on average since 2011 ( the year the oldest Boomer reached age 65 ) , and the largest increase was 2.5 million between the third quarter of 2014 and 2015 .
As has been the case for much of the last 15 years , Republicans continue to hold more unfavorable views of China than Democrats , 83 % vs. 68 % , respectively . Republicans are also much more likely to say they have a very unfavorable view of China ( 54 % ) than Democrats ( 35 % ) .
Currently , 41 % of Democrats say they have a favorable opinion of the federal government , compared with 27 % of independents and just 13 % of Republicans . By contrast , state and local governments are viewed favorably across-the-board . Nearly identical percentages of Democrats ( 56 % ) , Republicans ( 57 % ) and independents ( 59 % ) have a favorable opinion of their state 's government . Similarly , local governments receive positive ratings from 67 % of Democrats , 63 % of Republicans and 60 % of independents .
Meanwhile , 58 % of adults in India say that no matter who wins an election , things do not change very much . This again includes a majority of both BJP and Congress supporters .
While 37 % of Americans plan to spend less on gifts this year , 10 % plan on spending more . This year 's average Christmas shopper plans on spending $ 704 , down from the $ 770 they planned to spend around this time last year , according to Gallup . Looking back to 1999 , the largest amount that Americans planned to spend on Christmas gifts was $ 866 in 2007 , before the nation was hit with the financial crisis . The smallest amount was $ 616 during the 2008 recession , a year later .
In addition , Washington Catholics are significantly younger than Catholics in New York and the country as a whole . Roughly a quarter of D.C.-area Catholic adults are under age 30 ( 26 % ) , compared with just 17 % of U.S. Catholics overall who are in this age group – and only 11 % in New York City . At the same time , just 11 % of Washington , D.C. , Catholics are 65 or older , compared with 20 % of all U.S. Catholics and 23 % and 25 % of Catholics in New York and Philadelphia , respectively .
Black households have only 10 cents in wealth for every dollar held by white households . In 2016 , the median wealth of non-Hispanic white households was $ 171,000 . That 's 10 times the wealth of black households ( $ 17,100 ) – a larger gap than in 2007 . The Great Recession of 2007 - 2009 triggered a stark decline in wealth for U.S. families and further widened the already large wealth gap between white and black households . Yet the black-to-white wealth gap has evolved differently for families at different income levels , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Federal Reserve data . The wealth gap increased between middle-income black and white families , but shrank between lower-income black and white families from 2007 to 2016 . Much of the reduction in the wealth gap among lower-income families was driven by a sharp decrease in wealth for whites .
About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) Americans saw a country that was more politically divided than in the past . Looking ahead , 36 % predicted the divisions would deepen in the next five years while 41 % said they would remain the same , and 17 % foresaw less division .
Not only was the comedian and television host by far the most frequently cited example of a gay or lesbian public figure in the general-population survey , she and President Obama were the leaders when LGBT Americans were asked to name a well-known figure who 's been important in advancing the rights of LGBT people . Nearly a quarter of LGBT respondents cited President Obama , who publicly reversed his previous opposition to same-sex marriage and spoke about it , and LGBT rights more generally , in his second inaugural address this past January .
Teen pregnancy : The birthrate for 15- to 19-year-olds ( the metric tracked by federal researchers ) has been dropping for decades and hit a record low in 2014 . There were just 24.2 births per 1,000 teen females that year , compared with 61.8 per 1,000 in 1991 and 41.5 as recently as 2007 . Over the past few decades , birthrates have not only fallen among teens of all races and ethnicities reported , but have fallen the most for those with the highest rates . In 1991 , for instance , non-Hispanic black teens had the highest birthrate ( 118.2 per 1,000 ) of any racial or ethnic group – 90.9 points higher than Asian teens , who had the lowest rate ( 27.3 per 1,000 ) . By 2013 , the spread between the highest subgroup birth rate ( Hispanic teens , 41.7 per 1,000 ) and the lowest ( Asian teens , 8.7 per 1,000 ) was just 33 points , according to the CDC data .
Half of U.S. adults today are married , a share that has remained relatively stable in recent years but is down 9 percentage points over the past quarter century and dramatically different from the peak of 72 % in 1960 , according to newly released census data .
Around seven-in-ten adults ( 72 % ) say they would definitely ( 42 % ) or probably ( 30 % ) get a coronavirus vaccine if one were available , while about a quarter ( 27 % ) say they would not . The survey comes amid concerns that activists and others who are hesitant to get vaccinated for other diseases might not get inoculated against the coronavirus .
One particularly popular spending cut in the name of deficit reduction is to reduce U.S. assistance to foreign countries ( 72 % approve ) . A substantial 65 % also supports reducing U.S. military commitments overseas as a way to reduce the deficit . This comports with the broad impression – held by six-in-ten – that the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan has contributed greatly to the size of the current national debt , more than any other factor tested .
Roughly a third of Gen Zers ( 35 % ) say they know someone who prefers to be referred to using gender-neutral pronouns . Gen Zers ( Americans born after 1996 ) are more likely than Millennials ( born between 1981 and 1996 ) to say they know someone who prefers this : 35 % say this is the case , compared with a quarter of Millennials and smaller shares in older generations .
Strikingly , however , two-thirds of the black public agreed in the 2003 survey that poor people have become too dependent on government assistance , only 5 percentage points fewer than the number of whites taking that view .
Nearing the end of his two terms , Obama 's average approval stands at 14 % among Republicans , compared with 81 % among Democrats . Average ratings of George W. Bush were only slightly less polarized : While 81 % of Republicans approved of Bush on average throughout his presidency , just 23 % of Democrats expressed a favorable opinion .
Overall , the public continues to express negative views of the news media . Fully 70 % say the news media have a negative effect on the way things are going in the country , while just 22 % say the media have a positive effect .
There also are sizable gender and age differences in views of the missile strikes and on whether Trump has a clear plan for addressing the Syrian situation . Nearly seven-in-ten men ( 68 % ) approve of the U.S. missile strikes in response to the reported use of chemical weapons , compared with 48 % of women .
From leaks of NSA surveillance programs to the IRS and Benghazi controversies , Washington has been rife with revelations and high-profile investigations this year . But the public paid more attention to the debate over gun policy than any of those stories . In late January , 43 % said they followed President Obama 's gun proposals very closely and 39 % tracked the gun control debate very closely in April , the week that the Senate defeated gun legislation . No other Washington story has drawn more interest this year , according to our polls . In early January , 38 % followed news about the `` fiscal cliff '' agreement very closely . By comparison , there has been less interest in news about the NSA phone and internet surveillance , the IRS 's scrutiny of conservative groups and the congressional investigation into last fall 's deadly attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi , Libya . Last week , 27 % paid very close attention to news that the government had collected phone records from Verizon for national security purposes ( although , this story is still developing so interest may increase ) . In May , 26 % followed news about the IRS very closely while about as many ( 25 % ) said they were following news about the Benghazi investigation very closely .
While the absolute number of U.S. elementary and secondary students seems to be on the rise , they 're making up a smaller and smaller share of the overall population : 17.4 % this year , by our calculation , versus 19.4 % as recently as 1999 . But postsecondary students are increasing both in absolute and percentage terms : from 12.5 million ( 5.3 % of the population ) three decades ago to a projected 21.9 million ( 6.9 % ) this year . That trend is driven both by the aging population ( kids who seemingly only yesterday were in first grade now entering college ) and by adults continuing in , or returning to , higher education to retrain or refresh their skills .
Large majorities of the public , Republicans and Democrats alike , say open and fair elections and a system of governmental checks and balances are essential to maintaining a strong democracy in the United States . However , there is less consensus about the importance of other aspects of a strong democracy – notably , the freedom of news organizations to criticize political leaders . The survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 7 - 12 among 1,503 adults , finds that 89 % say fair and open national elections are very important to maintaining a strong democracy , while 83 % say the same about a system of checks and balances dividing power between the president , Congress and the courts . As in past surveys , most also view the right to nonviolent protest ( 79 % ) and protecting the rights of those with unpopular views ( 74 % ) as very important components of a strong democracy . A smaller majority ( 64 % ) says the freedom of news organizations to criticize political leaders is essential to maintain a strong democracy in the U.S .
But while that finding points to a general anti-incumbent mood in the country , it is often the case that these same voters regard their own representative differently . That 's why the telling number in the Tuesday 's survey is the 38 % of voters who say they want their own representative to be defeated . That 's as high as this figure has been in two decades . In the run-up to the 2010 election year , when Republicans regained control of the House , 29 % of those surveyed had said they did not want to see their own lawmaker re-elected . In the September prior to the 2006 midterms , when Democrats won control of the House for the first time in 12 years , 25 % had said they wanted their own representative ousted .
During George H.W . Bush 's tenure , the launching of the Persian Gulf War briefly turned the tide of falling public satisfaction – which shot up to 66 % in February of 1991 . But , having celebrated Saddam Hussein 's retreat from Kuwait , the public turned its attention to the by-then clear indicators of another economic slump , whereupon Bush Sr. witnessed the fastest drop in public contentment of all recent presidents . The Clinton administration inherited that bad economy and had a bumpy first year with respect to gays in the military and health care reform . The public 's gloomy outlook lingered more or less until the reality of the economic boom of the second half of the 1990s was manifest . The current period , like some earlier periods of discontent , plays out against a backdrop of growing misgivings about events abroad–in this case the war in Iraq . But three factors distinguish today 's ebb in the public 's mood . The first is that the decline has occurred over a long period of time , starting from a high point of 70-percent national satisfaction in the post-9/11 rally-round-the-flag days of late 2001 . The second is that , during this nearly five-year period , the economy , far from being in retreat , has been in mostly good shape , judging by the major economic indicators . And third is the sharp partisan divide in how people judge the condition of the nation , a division seen in many other public attitudes and opinions .
Since 1965 , immigrants and their descendants have changed the country 's racial and ethnic makeup . In 1965 , the population was 84 % white , 11 % black , 4 % Hispanic and 1 % Asian . The black share of the population has stayed steady since then , but Hispanics are now 18 % of the population and Asians are 6 % , while the white share of the population has fallen to 62 % . Without any post-1965 immigration , the nation 's racial and ethnic composition would be very different today : 75 % white , 14 % black , 8 % Hispanic and 1 % Asian . By 2055 , the U.S. as a whole is projected to have no racial or ethnic majority .
Around one-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 ( 9 % ) say they moved due to the coronavirus outbreak , higher than the share in any other age group . Young adults are among the groups most affected by pandemic-related job losses and by the shutdown of college housing in early spring .
At the local public radio level , an analysis of the public filings provided by 123 of the largest news-oriented licensees ( organizations that operate local public radio stations ) shows that in 2017 – the last year for which reliable data is available – total revenue for this group was $ 904.7 million .
Finally , the survey found that a number of religious groups are largely comprised of immigrants : The vast majority ( 87 % ) of Hindu adults living in the U.S. are first-generation immigrants , while about six-in-ten American Muslims ( 61 % ) in the survey were born overseas . Among Christian traditions , Orthodox Christians have the greatest share of members born abroad ( 40 % ) , a significantly higher percentage than the 27 % of Catholics who are first-generation immigrants .
Mexicans are divided over President Enrique Peña Nieto , with 51 % expressing a favorable opinion and 48 % viewing him unfavorably , including 30 % who give a very unfavorable assessment . Since 2012 , negative attitudes toward the president have increased 10 percentage points . Mexicans age 50 and older , those who live in rural areas , and residents of Mexico 's Central region have a more positive impression of the president . Peña Nieto receives the highest rating among the leaders asked about on the survey . Andrés Manuel López Obrador , the PRD 's candidate during the 2012 presidential elections who recently broke away to found his own party , the National Regeneration Movement ( MORENA ) , garners positive ratings from just 36 % of the public . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) view him negatively , relatively unchanged from 2012 . Marcelo Ebrard , who served as mayor of Mexico City for six years , also remains unpopular . Only 23 % express favorable views of this PRD-aligned politician , while 57 % give him a negative rating .
The U.S. decision to restore relations with Cuba had strong support in Latin America . A majority across five Latin American countries surveyed in the spring of 2015 said they approved of the thawing of relations between the U.S. and Cuba . Nearly eight-in-ten in Chile ( 79 % ) , Argentina ( 78 % ) and Venezuela ( 77 % ) said they approved of the renewal of relations between the U.S. and Cuba , as did 67 % of those in Brazil and 54 % of those in Mexico . There was similarly broad support for ending the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba . Support for ending the embargo was stronger among Latin Americans with higher incomes , compared with lower-income respondents .
The survey also found that more than four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 45 % ) think the country has n't gone far enough in giving black people equal rights with whites , while 15 % say it 's gone too far and 39 % say it 's been about right . About eight-in-ten black adults ( 78 % ) say the country has n't made enough progress in this area , compared with 37 % of whites and 48 % of Hispanics . ( Because this question was asked of a random half of the sample , the views of Asians ca n't be analyzed separately ; for more information , see `` A note about the Asian sample . '' )
When asked about eight admissions criteria that colleges may consider , high school grades top the list . About two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say this should be a major factor ; 26 % say it should be a minor factor . And while many colleges have stopped requiring standardized test scores as part of the application process , 47 % of Americans say these scores should play a major role , while an additional 41 % say they should play a minor role . Most Americans also think colleges should take into account community service involvement .
Trump receives dramatically lower ratings than his predecessor in Canada . And for the first time since the Center began polling in Canada , the share of Canadians expressing a favorable opinion of their neighbor to the south has slipped to below 50 % . Just 43 % of Canadians now have a positive view of the U.S .
Similarly , those with the highest levels of familiarity with Islam express the most favorable views of Muslims . Nearly six-in-ten of those most familiar with Islam express favorable views of Muslims , compared with less than four-in-ten among those with less familiarity . Regardless of their familiarity with Islam , more Americans say that their beliefs are different from rather than similar to the Muslim religion . However , even on this question , those who are most familiar with Islam stand out as being more likely to say that their religion is similar to Islam ( 27 % vs. 7 % among those with low familiarity ) . More than a third ( 35 % ) of those with low familiarity say they do not know whether their religion is similar to or different from Islam .
Clinton 's lead in the early race for the Democratic nomination is reflected in her positive personal image . Clear pluralities of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters rate her as the candidate who would be the strongest leader ( 37 % ) and the most likely to make the changes the country needs ( 37 % ) . When it comes to which candidate has the best experience to be president , Clinton and Gore are tied with 39 % each . And in rating which candidate is the most inspiring , 32 % of Democrats name Clinton , while 34 % name Obama .
Today , about half of voters ( 52 % ) say they have given a lot of thought about the presidential candidates – the highest share at this early point in an election cycle since the question was first asked in the run-up to the 2008 election . Similar majorities of both Republican and Democratic voters say they have given a lot of thought to the 2020 candidates running for president ( 55 % and 52 % , respectively ) . Among registered Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters , the shares who say they have given a lot of thought to the candidates is higher than the shares who said this at similar points in the previous three election cycles . Today , about half of Democratic voters say this ( 52 % ) , compared with smaller shares in 2015 ( 43 % ) , 2011 ( 22 % ) and 2007 ( 37 % ) . Republican voters are about as likely to say they 've thought about the 2020 candidates as they were in September 2015 – when there were over 15 candidates running for the GOP presidential nomination .
About eight-in-ten Americans say they understand the risks and challenges of police work , but 86 % of police say the public does not understand . This is one of several areas where the views of police and those of the public diverge significantly . For example , while half of the public says the country still needs to make changes to give blacks equal rights with whites , this view is shared by just 16 % of police . Law enforcement officers and the public are broadly in agreement on other issues , such as making private gun sales and gun show sales subject to background checks .
This stands in contrast with Latin America and Africa , where about six-in-ten people ( a median of 61 % and 59 % , respectively ) express serious concerns about the threat posed by global climate change . It ranks as the greatest threat in nearly every country in these two regions . Asians are also relatively concerned about climate change . With a median of 41 % voicing serious concern , the issue captures the top spot in half of the Asia-Pacific countries surveyed .
An analysis of news coverage of Iraq by the Project for Excellence in Journalism found that press attention to the war increased during the week of March 24 , following an uptick of violence in the country and the 4,000 death milestone being reached on March 23 . From March 24 - 30 , 16 % of news coverage was devoted to events in Iraq , according to PEJ . From January through mid-March , by contrast , an average of 3 % of news coverage was devoted to Iraq .
There are racial , gender , religious and political divides in opinions on the death penalty in the U.S. A majority of whites ( 59 % ) favor the death penalty , compared with 36 % of blacks and 47 % of Hispanics , according to the Center 's 2018 survey . Also , men are more likely than women to favor capital punishment ( 61 % vs. 46 % ) . Solid majorities of white evangelical Protestants ( 73 % ) and white mainline Protestants ( 61 % ) favor the death penalty , while Catholics ( 53 % ) and those without a religious affiliation ( 48 % ) are more divided on the issue . Partisanship also plays a role , with Republicans more than twice as likely as Democrats to support the death penalty ( 77 % vs. 35 % ) .
Women make up 47 % of the U.S. labor force , up from 30 % in 1950 – but growth has stagnated . The share of women in the labor force generally grew throughout the second half of the 20th century , but it has since leveled off . Projections from the Bureau of Labor Statistics indicate that in the coming decades women will continue to make up slightly less than half of the labor force .
Most Americans think scientists should help make food policy ; fewer think food industry leaders should have a major policymaking role . Despite mixed assessments of scientists working on GM food issues , six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 60 % ) say scientists should have a major role in policy issues related to GM foods and 28 % say they should have a minor role . Similar shares of Americans say that small-farm owners and the general public should have a major role in GM food policy . A smaller share of Americans says that food industry leaders ( 42 % ) or elected officials ( 24 % ) should have a major role in policy decisions about GM foods .
The vast majority of cellphone-using teens say their phone is a way to just pass time , with nine-in-ten saying they often or sometimes use it this way , according to a Pew Research Center survey of 13- to 17-year-olds conducted in 2018 . Similarly large shares of teen cellphone users say they at least sometimes use their phone to connect with other people ( 84 % ) or learn new things ( 83 % ) . But while phones are a way for teens to connect with other people , they can also be a way to avoid face-to-face interactions . Roughly four-in-ten teen cellphone users ( 43 % ) say they often or sometimes use their phone to avoid interacting with people . This is truer for teen girls than teen boys . Roughly half of teen girls who have access to a cellphone ( 54 % ) say they often or sometimes use their mobile device to avoid social interaction , while 31 % of teen boys report doing the same .
In the U.S. , views of NATO have surged among Democrats but generally remained steady among Republicans . Almost eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) approved of NATO in the 2017 survey – a 20-point increase from the 58 % who approved in 2016 . Democratic opinions of the alliance had generally remained stable in prior years . In contrast , just 47 % of Republicans felt the same in 2017 – little changed from previous years . Roughly six-in-ten independents ( 59 % ) approved as of last year .
At the same time , there has been a rise in unilateralist sentiment . Fully 44 % say that because the United States `` is the most powerful nation in the world , we should go our own way in international matters , not worrying about whether other countries agree with us or not . '' That is by far the highest percentage agreeing since the question was first asked by Gallup in 1964 .
And Mexicans who identify with the right-of-center PAN ( 77 % dissatisfied ) are more pessimistic about the state of things in the country than supporters of Peña Nieto 's PRI ( 58 % ) . Although majorities in all regions of the country are dissatisfied , those in the Greater Mexico City area ( 81 % ) are the most pessimistic .
Substantial shares across Europe believe the financial situation of average people in their country is worse today compared with 20 years ago . Two notable exceptions are Poland and Sweden , where about two-thirds believe people are generally better off financially .
Americans have more confidence in the leaders of France , Japan and Germany to do the right thing regarding world affairs than they have in U.S. President Donald Trump , according to a Pew Research Center poll conducted earlier this year . Majorities in the U.S. view French President Emmanuel Macron , Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and German Chancellor Angela Merkel with confidence , while about half ( 48 % ) are confident that Trump will do the right thing internationally . Of the seven leaders tested in the survey , Americans have the lowest levels of confidence in Russian President Vladimir Putin , with about one-in-five ( 21 % ) saying he will do the right thing in world affairs . Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi receive equivalent ratings : About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) in the U.S. have confidence in each .
Opinions of Russia are more unfavorable than favorable in 26 nations . The strongest negative sentiment is in Poland and Jordan ( both 80 % ) . The former is a legacy of a long history of bilateral tensions . Public opinion in Jordan may be influenced by Moscow 's current support for the regime of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria , Jordan 's neighbor and the source of hundreds of thousands of refugees in Jordan . Anti-Russian sentiment is also particularly strong in Israel ( 74 % ) , Japan ( 73 % ) , Germany ( 70 % ) and France ( 70 % ) .
While there may not be a direct causal connection between government regulations and social hostilities involving religious attire , our data show that harassment of women over religious dress occurs more often in countries where the wearing of religious symbols and attire are regulated by any level of government .
The chart above summarizes the results for one of LAPOP 's coup-related questions from its most recent biennial AmericasBarometer survey , about whether high unemployment would justify a coup . The 2008 AmericasBarometer survey found that between 36.3 % ( Uruguay ) and 71.2 % ( Guyana ) said high levels of crime would justify a coup ; in the 2010 survey , the percentage of people saying high levels of corruption would justify a coup ranged from 20.8 % in Argentina to 58 % in Belize . ( The black dot on each bar represents the percentage of people in each country who say high unemployment would justify a coup . The grey band on either side of the dot represents the 95 % confidence interval , which means that in 95 out of every 100 samples of the same size and type , the result would fall somewhere within the grey band . )
As fighting continues in eastern Ukraine between government forces and Russian-backed rebels , the public has become more supportive of sending arms to the Ukrainian government and increasing sanctions on Russia . More still oppose ( 53 % ) than favor ( 41 % ) the U.S. sending arms and military supplies to the Ukrainian government , but support for arming Ukraine is up 11 points since April 2014 , when opposition outweighed support by about two-to-one ( 30 % favored , 62 % opposed ) . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 18 - 22 among 1,504 adults , finds the public is split over whether the U.S. should provide training to Ukrainian troops : 49 % say they would favor this , while 46 % are opposed .
The gap between whites , blacks and Hispanics exists among Americans with and without a college degree . For example , among those with a college degree or more , whites got an average of 3.7 more correct answers than blacks and 1.7 more than Hispanics . There are also differences between whites , blacks and Hispanics with a college degree on the factual science knowledge items in the GSS .
As the end of the primary season draws near , Barack Obama is the clear favorite of Democratic voters for their party 's presidential nomination . He currently holds a wide 54 % to 41 % lead over Hillary Clinton . But when the Illinois Democrat is tested against John McCain in a general election matchup , he now runs about even against the presumptive Republican nominee . Previously , Obama had led McCain by modest margins in three Pew surveys conducted since late February .
The survey finds that voters view Biden much more positively than Trump for compassion , honesty and being a good role model . Nearly twice as many voters say `` compassionate '' describes Biden very or fairly well than say it applies to Trump ( 67 % vs. 34 % ) . More than half of voters ( 53 % ) say Biden is honest , compared with 35 % who describe Trump as honest . And far more voters say Biden is a good role model ( 54 % vs. 28 % ) . The gap is narrower on other personal attributes . Biden holds a narrow 6-point edge in `` courageous '' ( 54 % Biden , 48 % Trump ) ; slightly more say Trump than Biden is mentally sharp ( 50 % Trump , 46 % Biden ) . Among six personal traits included , Trump holds his widest edge in standing up for his beliefs : 69 % say this describes Trump very or fairly well , compared with 61 % who say it describes Biden well .
Roughly one-in-five also say they followed news about the current situation and events in Afghanistan ( 20 % very closely ) and news about anti-government protests and violence in some Middle Eastern countries ( 18 % ) . However , far more cited news about Afghanistan as their top story than said that about Middle East unrest ( 12 % vs. 4 % ) . Coverage of unrest in the Middle East accounted for 9 % of coverage , while news about Afghanistan made up 3 % of the newshole . Fewer Americans followed news about the NBA finals very closely ( 14 % ) , while 11 % say it was their top story . Three times as many African Americans as whites followed the basketball finals very closely ( 33 % vs. 10 % ) . In other political news , the debate in Washington over whether to raise the federal debt limit was the top story for just 7 % of Americans ; 23 % of Americans say they followed news about this topic very closely . Debt limit news accounted for 6 % of coverage last week , according to PEJ 's analysis . Republicans were the most interested in this story : 33 % say they followed debt limit news very closely , while just 21 % of independents and 18 % of Democrats say the same .
Dramatic growth over the past two decades in the number of offenders sentenced in federal courts has been driven primarily by enforcement of a particular immigration offense—unlawful reentry into the United States—according to an analysis of data from the United States Sentencing Commission ( USSC ) by the Pew Research Center . Between 1992 and 2012 , the number of offenders sentenced in federal courts more than doubled , rising from 36,564 cases to 75,867.1 At the same time , the number of unlawful reentry convictions increased 28-fold , from 690 cases in 1992 to 19,463 in 2012.2 The increase in unlawful reentry convictions alone accounts for nearly half ( 48 % ) of the growth in the total number of offenders sentenced in federal courts over the period . By contrast , the second fastest growing type of conviction—for drug offenses—accounted for 22 % of the growth .
STEM workers enjoy a pay advantage compared with non-STEM workers with similar levels of education . Among those with some college education , the typical full-time , year-round STEM worker earns $ 54,745 while a similarly educated non-STEM worker earns $ 40,505 , or 26 % less . And among those with the highest levels of education , STEM workers out-earn their non-STEM counterparts by a similar margin . Non-STEM workers with a master 's degree typically earn 26 % less than STEM workers with similar education . The median earnings of non-STEM workers with a professional or doctoral degree trail their STEM counterparts by 24 % .
Overall , 69 % of Latino registered voters say they are `` absolutely certain '' they will vote this November , down modestly from 77 % who said the same in 2012 . Among the sharpest declines – 13 percentage points – is among Millennial Latinos . This year , 62 % say they are absolutely certain they will vote compared with 74 % who said the same four years ago . Yet , even though a lower share of Latino registered voters say they are certain to vote than in 2012 , engagement with the election is roughly similar . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) say they have given `` quite a lot of thought '' to it in 2016 , while in 2012 , 61 % said the same .
Other recent data confirm this pattern . A 2013 Pew Research survey showed that protection is now the top reason gun owners offer for why they choose to own a gun ( in 1999 , hunting was the top reason ) . And among the public at large , the latest Gallup survey finds that 63 % of Americans now say having a gun in the home makes it a safer place compared with 30 % who say it makes a home more dangerous . Fifteen years ago , more said the presence of a gun made a home more dangerous ( 51 % ) than safer ( 35 % ) .
The American public is evenly divided on whether the increased number of deportations of undocumented immigrants in recent years is a good thing or a bad thing ( 45 % each ) , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults . About half of whites ( 49 % ) view the growing number of deportations positively . But Hispanics have a different view . By 60 % to 35 % , Hispanics view the increase negatively , according to the survey .
The public is split on whether Russian efforts to influence the 2016 election benefited Donald Trump 's campaign or neither campaign very much . Roughly equal shares say that Russian efforts likely benefited Trump 's campaign ( 43 % ) or neither of the campaigns ( 48 % ) – with sharp divisions by party . Just 4 % say Russian efforts benefited Hillary Clinton 's campaign .
Looking beyond these overall recovery rates , local recycling programs vary considerably in which materials they accept and the degree to which residents must separate different materials . The Pew Research Center survey found that 59 % of the public believes that `` most types of items '' can be recycled in their community ; another 26 % characterize their options as `` some , '' and 13 % say only a few types of items can be recycled where they live . And the people who live in places that strongly encourage recycling also are more likely to say that most types of items can be recycled there . About half ( 48 % ) of adults in the Pew Research Center survey say their community has services for recycling electronic devices , though about a third ( 34 % ) say they are n't sure . People living in places that strongly encourage recycling in general are much more likely to say that electronics are recycled in their local areas most or some of the time , compared with people who live in communities that `` do not really encourage '' recycling ( 62 % versus 15 % ) .
There are other e-commerce activities for which less than a majority of higher-income Americans on the internet engage , but they still conduct these activities at significantly higher percentages than other income groups , including paying for online content , reviewing products , rating products , and participating on online auctions .2 , 3
Although most European Muslims are satisfied with the general direction of the countries they live in , large majorities are still concerned about the future of Muslims in their country . British Muslims are the most concerned – eight-in-ten ( 80 % ) are at least somewhat concerned including about half ( 49 % ) who are very concerned . French Muslims follow closely behind in their anxiety , with 72 % saying they are either very ( 38 % ) or somewhat ( 34 % ) concerned . The numbers of Muslims very concerned about the future are somewhat lower in Germany ( 28 % ) and Spain ( 30 % ) although substantial majorities in both countries say they are at least somewhat worried as they look ahead .
Friends and family are an important source of news , but Americans still count more on news organizations . Online news consumers are about twice as likely to often get news online from news organizations as they are from friends and family , and they find that news somewhat more accurate and just as near to their interests . Beyond just online news , Americans place as much trust in the information they get from news organizations as they do in information coming from family and friends – though there is a not a lot of trust placed in either . Only about two-in-ten trust information from local or national news organizations `` a lot , '' and 14 % say the same of information from family and friends . At least three-quarters express some or a lot of trust in the information from each .
Our survey asked those who have earned money through digital employment platforms – such as ride-hailing apps or various digital task sites – why they take on this type of work . They cited a number of reasons , from helping to fill in gaps in their other sources of income ( 37 % mentioned this ) to needing ways to earn money that could fit into the other demands on their time ( 30 % ) . But the number one motivation , cited by 42 % of respondents , was fun , or because the work gives them something to do in their spare time .
In the contentious weeks leading up to Election Day , voters are deeply divided over the candidates , major issues and the nation 's past and future course . And , in a new survey , most voters say these differences even extend to disputes over basic facts . Fully 81 % say that most supporters of Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump not only disagree over plans and policies , but also disagree on `` basic facts . '' Just 18 % say that while Clinton and Trump supporters often differ over plans and policies , they can agree on basic facts .
The overall result : Most representatives are elected from districts dominated by a single party , whose adherents have themselves grown less moderate over time . Given that , it 's hardly surprising that the congressional parties are growing further and further apart ideologically , as depicted in the two charts to the right . They 're derived from data in the newly released `` Vital Statistics on Congress '' compendium , a joint effort between two longtime and well-respected scholars of Congress , Norman Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute and Thomas Mann of the Brookings Institution . ( If you want to know how many Jewish Republicans there were in the House in 1967 or when the first Hispanic was elected to the Senate , this is the place to go . ) Ornstein and Mann list the average ideological positions of House and Senate Republicans and Democrats in each Congress since the end of World War II , adopting a scoring procedure developed some three decades ago by Keith Poole of the University of Georgia and Howard Rosenthal of NYU . The Poole-Rosenthal scale , based on members ' voting records , runs from -1 ( most liberal ) to +1 ( most conservative ) .
President Donald Trump is promising major changes on climate and energy policy , including efforts to increase production from fossil fuel energy sources such as coal . But a new Pew Research Center survey finds that 65 % of Americans give priority to developing alternative energy sources , compared with 27 % who would emphasize expanded production of fossil fuel sources .
Three decades ago , most Americans felt it would be troubling to have a child tell them he or she was gay : In a 1985 Los Angeles Times survey , nine-in-ten American adults ( 89 % ) said they would be upset if this happened , and just 9 % said they would not be . But views of homosexuality have shifted over time , and today nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) say they would not be upset if they had a child come out as gay or lesbian , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in May .
Voters are skeptical that either Clinton or Trump will repair the country 's political divisions . No matter who wins on Tuesday , a strong majority of voters believe the nation 's polarization will remain a reality . Overall , 41 % of voters say they expect political divisions in the country to increase if Clinton wins , while 48 % say divisions will stay about the same and just 9 % say they will decrease , according to an October survey . A majority of voters ( 55 % ) expect divisions to increase if Trump wins , while 26 % say they will stay about the same and 17 % say they will decrease .
Among Republicans who identify as more conservative than the GOP , more than three-quarters ( 79 % ) say they have given a lot of thought to the 2016 election . Republicans with similar or more liberal views relative to their party are less invested : 64 % of those ideologically aligned with the GOP have given the campaign a lot of thought , along with 62 % of Republicans more liberal than their party .
The August Pew poll found that 46 % of the public says that Mitt Romney is very religious . This is comparable to the percentage saying that George W. Bush is very religious , and is much greater than for any other presidential candidate in the race for either party 's nomination .
But while most Americans see the U.S. as the global economic and military leader , many also said the U.S. is not quite as powerful a player on the world stage as it used to be . In a separate survey , nearly half of Americans ( 46 % ) said the U.S. plays a less important and powerful role now than a decade ago , compared with 31 % who said its role is still as important and 21 % who saw it as having increased in importance .
When Pew Research Center surveyed 14 advanced economies in the spring of 2016 , one thing was clear : In each of the countries surveyed , nearly all people reported owning a mobile phone . But the shares who own a smartphone vary considerably . Among the countries surveyed , people in Sweden , the Netherlands , Spain and Australia reported the highest smartphone ownership rates , at roughly eight-in-ten in each country . Nearly as many Americans ( 77 % ) said they owned a smartphone , a number that more than doubled since 2011 . ( A smartphone is defined as a mobile phone that can access the internet or use an app , examples being an iPhone , Android-enabled device or Windows phone . For complete list of examples , see appendix . ) Rates of smartphone ownership were considerably lower in some of the other countries surveyed . About half in Poland ( 52 % ) owned a smartphone , though that figure is up significantly since the question was first asked in 2013 , when only 21 % reported owning a smartphone . And while pluralities in 13 of the 14 countries surveyed reported owning a smartphone , regular mobile devices are still fairly common in Greece ( 43 % ) , Hungary ( 41 % ) , and Poland and Japan ( both 37 % ) .
Among children ( ages 5 to 17 ) in the U.S. for five years or less , 46 % speak English proficiently . This share rises to 84 % among foreign-born Hispanic children who have been in the country 11 to 15 years , and reaches 85 % among those in the country 16 to 17 years .
The U.S. Hispanic population reached 60.6 million in 2019 , up from 50.7 million in 2010 . This makes Hispanics the nation 's second-fastest-growing racial or ethnic group after Asian Americans . Hispanics made up 18 % of the U.S. population in 2019 , up from 16 % in 2010 and just 5 % in 1970 .
Support for same-sex marriage has risen across all religious groups in recent years , including among white evangelicals and black Protestants . Support for same sex-marriage among white Evangelicals has more than doubled compared with a decade ago ( 14 % then , 35 % now ) , while the share of black Protestants who favor same-sex marriage has increased from 24 % in 2007 to 44 % today .
Democrats ' approval of the party 's leadership stands at 56 % ; by contrast , fully three-quarters of rank-and-file Republicans ( 76 % ) have a positive view of their party 's congressional leaders . About a year ago , 63 % of Democrats approved of the performance of Democratic congressional leaders . About a year ago , 63 % of Democrats approved of the performance of Democratic congressional leaders .
Other goals are also clearly important . Many say political stability is a crucial priority , and even more prioritize economic prosperity . When respondents are asked which is more important , a good democracy or a strong economy , Turkey and Lebanon are the only countries where more than half choose democracy . Egyptians are divided , while most Tunisians , Pakistanis and Jordanians prioritize the economy .
Older Republicans express higher levels of confidence than younger Republicans about the future of their party . About nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) of those ages 65 and older say they are optimistic , while just 65 % of those younger than 50 say the same .
Views on the overall benefits of trade largely align across the surveyed G20 nations , though the Japanese public is less convinced of a positive effect of trade on employment . Only about two-in-ten adults in Japan ( 21 % ) believe trade creates jobs , while 40 % believe trade does not have an impact on the creation of jobs . There is more certainty that trade creates jobs in the other G20 nations , with a median of 40 % across 15 surveyed countries believing that trade generates jobs . However , only about two-in-ten among people in Italy and Argentina say that trade creates jobs , compared with about half who say trade destroys jobs in those countries .
The Obama administration 's decision to exchange five Taliban prisoners for U.S. solider Bowe Bergdahl tied with reports about problems with care at veterans hospitals around the country as the public 's top story last week . Overall , 34 % say they very closely followed each news story .
Young adults are significantly more supportive than their elders of Edward Snowden and his leaks of classified details of the National Security Agency 's telephone and internet surveillance programs , a new Pew Research Center/USA TODAY survey finds . 57 % of 18- to 29-year olds said the leaks have served rather than harmed the public interest — almost exact mirrors of the 65-and-over age group . These youngest adults were the only age group without majority support for prosecuting Snowden — they split 42 % -42 % on whether the former NSA contractor should be tried . ( Snowden was charged in June 2013 with three criminal counts related to the leaks , though he 's apparently not yet been formally indicted . )
This analysis divides Latinos into three groups : first generation , second generation , and third generation or higher . First-generation Latinos were born outside the United States or on the island of Puerto Rico ( 63 % ) . Second-generation Latinos were born in the United States to immigrant parents ( 19 % ) . Third- or higher-generation Latinos were born in the United States to U.S.-born parents ( 17 % ) ( see Chart 1 ) .
At 69 years 5 months , Enzi is the 25th-oldest senator . The oldest , Dianne Feinstein of California , turned 80 last month ; the youngest , Christopher Murphy of Connecticut , turns 40 on Aug. 3 .
Muslims in Lebanon are also less likely to identify primarily with their religion , rather than with their country , with equal numbers saying they think of themselves first as Muslim ( 30 % ) and saying they identify primarily as Lebanese ( 30 % ) . Elsewhere , majorities or pluralities of Muslims identify more strongly with Islam than with their nationality — in many cases by lopsided proportions . Even in Turkey — a country with a long-running tradition of secularism — Muslim identifiers outnumber those who identify primarily as Turks by 13 percentage points .
Married adults have higher levels of relationship satisfaction and trust than those living with a partner . Married adults are more likely than those who are living with a partner to say things are going very well in their relationship ( 58 % vs. 41 % ) . They also express higher levels of satisfaction with specific aspects of their relationship , including the way household chores are divided between them and their spouse or partner , how well their spouse or partner balances work and personal life , how well they and their spouse or partner communicate , and their spouse 's or partner 's approach to parenting ( among those with children younger than 18 in the household ) . When it comes to their sex lives , however , similar shares of married and cohabiting adults ( about a third ) say they are very satisfied .
Though 56 % of working mothers say it 's very or somewhat difficult to balance work and family responsibilities , 78 % say they 're doing an `` excellent '' or `` very good '' job as parents .
German attitudes toward the U.S. have turned sharply negative in the Trump era . In Germany , attitudes toward the U.S. have followed a clear pattern over the past decade and a half . During the course of President George W. Bush 's two terms in office , confidence in his leadership and overall ratings of the U.S. declined among Germans amid strong opposition to key elements of Bush 's foreign policy . President Barack Obama , in contrast , was extremely well-regarded in Germany ( although his ratings did decline somewhat following the National Security Agency eavesdropping scandal ) , and his presidency coincided with a rebound in America 's overall image . However , as our 2017 Global Attitudes Survey found , German views toward the U.S. have dropped once again since Trump 's election . Only 11 % of Germans expressed confidence in Trump to do the right thing in world affairs in 2017 , down from 86 % for Obama in 2016 . And just 35 % said in 2017 that they had a favorable opinion of the U.S. , compared with 57 % the year before .
When it comes to children 's living arrangements , there are modest differences across community type , which are linked to the variation in both marriage and births outside of marriage . For example , in the suburbs , where marriage is relatively common and nonmarital births are relatively low , 71 % of children live with two married parents . This is slightly higher than the 66 % of children in urban areas living with two married parents , and similar to the 68 % of rural children who live with two married parents .
The public 's perceptions of economic news have taken a turn for the worse . And that could be bad news for Barack Obama , who held a lead over Mitt Romney in polling conducted mostly before last week 's disappointing jobs report and stock market slide . Currently 37 % say they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy , up from 32 % last month and the highest percentage expressing that view this year , according to a new survey conducted May 31-June 3 among 1,012 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press .
By a 54 % to 34 % margin , more Americans say the priority for addressing the nation 's energy supply should be developing alternative energy sources , such as wind , solar and hydrogen , over increased production of oil , coal and natural gas . Since 2011 , the public has prioritized alternative sources over expanding production . Last October , the gap had narrowed : 47 % said the priority should be developing alternative sources while 39 % said the focus should be on expanding oil , coal and natural gas . Still , while support for energy alternatives rebounded since then , it is below the 63 % who favored that approach in 2011 .
With just a few days remaining in Barack Obama 's presidency , 55 % say they approve of his handling of the job ; 40 % disapprove . His current rating is little different than in recent months , though he leaves office with approval ratings that are as high as they have been since shortly after his re-election in 2012 .
The relationship between Arabic searches for the word `` Greece '' in Turkey and arrivals into Greece were not as highly linked following the EU-Turkey deal , a plan to stem the flow of migrants from Turkey into Greece implemented by EU and Turkish officials on March 20 , 2016 . Following the deal , refugee arrivals averaged between 2,000 and 3,000 each month . Nonetheless , online searches for `` Greece '' in Arabic continued at nearly pre-surge levels . In other words , would-be migrants likely continued to search for migration help , but many did not actually migrate , possibly because of the new travel restrictions .
But just because recycling programs exist does n't mean everyone with access to them actually recycles . According to the EPA , only 34.3 % of the 254.1 million tons of municipal solid waste generated in 2013 was recovered through recycling or composting ; the overall recovery rate has actually slipped a bit since peaking at 34.7 % in 2011 . ( `` Municipal solid waste '' is the term of art for what most of us think of as trash ; it excludes construction and demolition debris , wastewater treatment sludges , and non-hazardous industrial wastes . `` Recovery '' includes recycling and composting , but not burning waste to produce energy . ) Other researchers using different methodologies have come up with higher waste-generation estimates and lower recovery rates . For example , a new report from the Environmental Research & Education Foundation estimates U.S. municipal solid waste generation in 2013 at 347 million tons , with 27 % of it being recycled or composted . Columbia University 's Earth Engineering Center , using a broader definition of municipal solid waste than the EPA , surveyed state and local waste management agencies and came up with an estimate of 389 million tons generated in 2011 , with 29 % recycled or composted .
Trump receives much lower marks for both the job he has done explaining his plans and policies ( 39 % approve ) and for his cabinet choices ( 41 % approve ) than Obama received in 2009 . Eight years ago , 70 % approved of the job Obama had done explaining his plans and policies for the future and 66 % said they approved of his cabinet selections . As reported in December , early ratings for Trump also trail those given to other recent presidents at similar points in their presidential transitions , including George W. Bush , Bill Clinton and George H.W . Bush .
The survey finds that the job situation remains the public 's top economic worry by a wide margin : 43 % say the job situation is the national economic issue that worries them most . Far fewer cite the budget deficit ( 22 % ) , rising prices ( 17 % ) or problems in financial or housing markets ( 11 % ) .
Under projections published in 2007 , the state 's Hispanic population was expected to reach 31 million in 2050 , or 52.1 % of all Californians . But according to updated projections released late last year , Hispanics are now expected to number 23.7 million in 2050 , or 47.6 % of all Californians . That pushes the prospect of a Hispanic demographic majority further into the future – perhaps to sometime after 2060 . California 's total population projections have also been reduced . In 2007 , the state 's population had been projected to reach 59.5 million in 2050 . But now , the latest projections say the population will reach 49.8 million in 2050 , about 10 million less than the earlier projection .
G20 leaders will also focus this year on climate change , sustainable energy and plastic litter in the ocean . This focus broadly matches public concerns about climate change in the nations surveyed by the Center . In fact , in all but one of the G20 countries surveyed – Russia – majorities say global climate change is a major threat to their nation . South Koreans are the most concerned , with 86 % considering it a major threat . At the other end of the spectrum , 43 % of Russians see global climate change as a major threat .
Republicans have widened their lead in leaned party identification among white evangelical Protestants : About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of white evangelicals lean Republican , while just 22 % lean Democratic . The GOP also holds a substantial advantage among Mormons . Fully 70 % of Mormons lean Republican , while just 22 % lean Democratic .
And while the UK and China rank in the top three positions across party lines , more Republicans ( 25 % ) than Democrats ( 5 % ) name Israel as a top foreign policy partner for the U.S . There are also significant partisan differences in opinion on views about Canada and Mexico .
One possible reason for the gap : Two-thirds of the public ( 67 % ) say scientists do not have a clear understanding about the health effects of GM crops .
About nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) of those surveyed think of research scientists as intelligent . Three-quarters ( 75 % ) see scientists as focused on solving real-world problems . Similar shares say they consider scientists to be skilled at working in teams ( 72 % ) or honest ( 71 % ) .
One-in-six newlyweds ( 17 % ) were married to someone of a different race or ethnicity in 2015 . This reflects a steady increase in intermarriage since 1967 , when just 3 % of newlyweds were intermarried , according to a 2017 Pew Research Center analysis .
The Center 's survey of teens does show stark differences in teens ' computer access based on their household income . A quarter of teens whose family income is less than $ 30,000 a year do not have access to a home computer , compared with 4 % of those whose annual family income is $ 75,000 or more .
Among eight institutions , the military receives the next highest level of public confidence ( 38 % have a great deal of confidence in this group ) . Smaller shares of Americans express a great deal of confidence in other institutions such as journalists ( 9 % ) or elected officials ( 3 % ) .
Parents with children younger than 18 in the household were no more or less likely than non-parents to express support for allowing teachers to carry guns in schools : 46 % of parents and 44 % of non-parents said they would favor it . Instead , opinions divided primarily along party lines and by gun ownership status , with Republicans and those who own guns particularly likely to say they would support allowing teachers to carry guns in schools .
Over the past three decades , the share of wage and salary workers in the United States who belong to labor unions has fallen by about half . The public expresses mixed views of the impact of the long-term decline in union membership on the country : 45 % say this has been mostly a bad thing , while 43 % see it as mostly a good thing .
Overall , 23 % of partnered adults whose significant other uses social media say they have felt jealous or unsure about their relationship because of the way their current spouse or partner interacts with other people on social media . But this share is even higher among those in younger age groups .
The internet tops the list ( 25 % ) when people are asked which source has been most useful . Close to four-in-ten ( 38 % ) of those younger than 40 cite the internet as that most useful source . Among those 40 - 64 , the web is tied with the cable news networks ( 22 % ) and among those 65 and older , the most frequent choices are local television news ( 21 % ) and cable news ( 22 % ) . Still , 15 % of that group name the internet . The internet is the top choice – or tied for top choice – across income and education groups . Broken down a different way , of the 49 % who say they learned something about the swine flu from the internet , about half ( 51 % ) say the internet was their most useful source . Among the 69 % who say they learned about the flu from local TV news , just 23 % cite local TV news as the most useful source . For cable news viewers , the pattern is similar . Of the two thirds ( 65 % ) that say they learned about the flu from cable TV news , just 22 % cite cable TV news as the most useful source .
The foreign-born shares of populations in several European countries have dramatically increased since mid-2015 , as more than 1 million migrants applied for asylum in Europe between July 2015 and May 2016 . This growth in the share of foreign born is due to migration of both asylum seekers and economic migrants entering European countries , but is largely driven by the rapid rise of asylum seekers .
When it comes to questions about religion and politics , Americans by and large say they like public officials to be religiously grounded . As of mid-2016 , about six-in-ten ( 62 % ) U.S. adults agree with the statement `` it 's important to me that a president have strong religious beliefs . '' This has long been the majority view among Americans , though support for the statement has declined gradually over the past eight years or so .
There were modest differences by household income when Pew Research first began measuring social media usage in 2005 : 4 % of those living in households earning less than $ 30,000 used social media , compared with 12 % of those living in household earning $ 75,000 or more . Those differences have persisted even as each group has seen dramatic growth in usage . Today , 78 % of those living in the highest-income households use social media , compared with 56 % of those in the lowest-income households – a 22-point difference .
Building a professional resume is among the most prominent of these challenges : Some 17 % of Americans ( not including those who are retired and/or disabled ) indicate that it would not be easy to create a professional resume if they needed to do so . Another 21 % say that it would not be easy to highlight their employment skills using a personal website or social media profile . Roughly one-in-ten indicate that it would be difficult for them to go online to find lists of available jobs ( 12 % ) ; fill out a job application online ( 12 % ) ; use email to contact or follow up with a potential employer ( 11 % ) ; or look up online services available to assist job seekers ( 10 % ) .
Race is a factor in their political attitudes . Silents are the whitest of the generations and are the least accepting of the new face of America . Compared with younger generations , relatively few Silents see racial intermarriage and the growing population of immigrants as changes for the better .
The public has very different reactions to the recent grand jury decisions in two police-related deaths that have sparked protests in cities across the country . By 50 % to 37 % , Americans say a grand jury made the right decision not to charge former Ferguson , Mo. , police officer Darren Wilson in the death of Michael Brown . In the Garner case , 28 % say race was a major factor , 16 % say it was a minor factor , while 39 % say it was not a factor ; 17 % express no opinion about the impact of race in the Garner decision , which was announced Dec. 3 . ( Questions about the Garner decision were asked Dec. 4 - 7 . )
For the first time since the end of the recession in 2009 , a greater share of the public is hearing mostly good news ( 28 % ) than bad news ( 22 % ) about the job situation . Nearly half ( 47 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news . This marks a stark change from a year ago , when just 12 % said they were hearing mostly good news about jobs , while more than three times as many ( 42 % ) had negative perceptions ; 44 % described the news as mixed .
On a number of questions in this survey , South African blacks are more optimistic than others about the future of the country . Roughly seven-in-ten blacks ( 69 % ) think the national economy will improve in the next 12 months , compared with 46 % of white and 30 % of mixed-race respondents , and they are also more likely to believe their own personal finances will improve in the coming year . South African blacks are more optimistic that the next generation will see improvements to such challenges as education , poverty , health care and corruption . And they are more likely than white or mixed-race South Africans to believe that young people should stay in South Africa to pursue a good life , rather than leave for another country . And while majorities of all three groups say the government is run for the benefit of only a few groups in society , whites and mixed-race respondents are more inclined than blacks to think so . Nigerian public opinion frequently divides along religious lines , with notable differences between Muslims and Christians . In our current poll , Muslims are much more upbeat about the economy , and more likely to believe that the national economy will improve in the next 12 months . Although majorities of both groups see inequality as a very big problem , Christians are especially likely to hold this view . And opinions about the fairness of government have shifted over the past year , perhaps reflecting a transition of power from former President Goodluck Jonathan , a Christian , to current President Muhammadu Buhari , a Muslim . Among Nigeria 's Christians , 65 % now say government is run for the benefit of a few groups , up slightly from 58 % in 2015 . Meanwhile , the share of Muslims expressing this view has dropped from 64 % to 45 % . Ethnic divisions are prominent on many issues in Kenya , with the Kikuyu and Kalenjin people expressing a much more positive outlook about the nation than the Luhya and Luo . Kikuyu and Kalenjin respondents are more satisfied with current economic conditions , and much less likely to say that the government is run for the benefit of only a few groups ( current President Uhuru Kenyatta is Kikuyu , and all presidents since the country 's independence have been either Kikuyu or Kalenjin ) .
A new analysis of Pew Research Center survey data from fall 2016 finds that 53 % of Millennials ( those ages 18 to 35 at the time ) say they used a library or bookmobile in the previous 12 months . That compares with 45 % of Gen Xers , 43 % of Baby Boomers and 36 % of those in the Silent Generation . ( It is worth noting that the question wording specifically focused on use of public libraries , not on-campus academic libraries . )
Only one-fifth of Americans believe that trade creates jobs compared to a median of 44 % among people in advanced economies , 52 % of those in emerging economies and 66 % of those in developing countries , according to a new Pew Research Center 44 country global survey . The disparities are similar when Americans are asked if trade increases wages , with the U.S. public holding a far more negative view than people in most other nations .
Moreover , social media users can be turned off by what happens on social media . For instance , social media sites are frequently cited as places where people are harassed . Near the end of the 2016 election campaign , 37 % of social media users said they were worn out by the political content they encountered , and large shares said social media interactions with those opposed to their views were stressful and frustrating . Large shares also said that social media interactions related to politics were less respectful , less conclusive , less civil and less informative than offline interactions .
Polls this year have found that more Americans favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally than did so just last year . In two polls conducted over the past few months , based on interviews with more than 6,000 adults , 42 % favor same-sex marriage while 48 % are opposed . In polls conducted in 2009 , 37 % favored allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally and 54 % were opposed . For the first time in 15 years of Pew Research Center polling , fewer than half oppose same-sex marriage .
Americans continue to see many international issues – including terrorism , the spread of nuclear weapons and cyberattacks – as major threats to the well-being of the nation . But as the COVID-19 pandemic sweeps the globe , the greatest threat named by Americans in a March 3 - 29 Pew Research Center survey is the spread of infectious diseases .
Across all levels of federal courts , 44 % of currently active federal judges were appointed by Obama , 30 % by George W. Bush and 14 % by Bill Clinton . Just 6 % of active judges were appointed by Trump . But that figure is certain to rise as the Senate confirms more of his nominees – and as more judges appointed by earlier presidents retire .
The proportion of young adults ages 18 - 29 who use the internet has always outpaced overall adoption levels among older groups . But while older adults still report lower levels of internet use today , seniors have the greatest rate of change since 2000 . In 2000 , 70 % of young adults used the internet and that figure has steadily grown to 96 % today . At the other end of the spectrum , 14 % of seniors used the internet in 2000 , while 58 % do so today . Not until 2012 did more than half of all adults ages 65 and older report using the internet .
British enthusiasm for leaving the EU has been declining ever since Cameron made his pledge . In 2013 , the British public was divided on the issue , with 46 % wanting to stay and 46 % expressing a desire to leave . In the 2015 Pew Research Center survey , more than half of Brits ( 55 % ) say they want to remain in the EU , while just 36 % say they want to go .
Dramatic events in London and Scotland last week attracted a large news audience . Roughly a third of the public paid very close attention to news that British police had found and defused two car bombs in London , and another 31 % followed the story fairly closely . Fully 21 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other — making it the most closely followed news story of the week .1 Interest in the attempted bombings did not reach the level of last summer 's major terrorism scare . In August 2006 , 54 % of the public paid very close attention to news about a foiled plot to blow up planes flying from England to the U.S. using liquid explosives . A large segment of the public remained focused on the Iraq war last week : 32 % followed the situation in Iraq very closely and 19 % listed this as their most closely followed story . The demise of the immigration reform bill was the most heavily covered news story of the week — 12 % of the overall newshole was devoted to this story . Roughly a quarter of the public followed the immigration debate very closely and 14 % listed it as their most closely followed story . Until last week , roughly equal proportions of Democrats and Republicans were following the immigration debate . However , as the controversial legislation collapsed in the Senate , Republicans paid much closer attention than did Democrats ( 32 % followed very closely vs. 19 % of Democrats ) .
Americans are more likely to prioritize greater cooperation with Germany than Germans are to prioritize increased cooperation with the U.S. About seven-in-ten in the U.S. ( 69 % ) want more cooperation with Germany , compared with half of Germans ( 50 % ) who want more cooperation with the U.S . Instead , Germans are most likely to say they want greater cooperation with France ( 77 % ) and Japan ( 69 % ) among the countries tested . Americans have consistently been more eager to cooperate with Germany than the other way around . This year , people in the U.S. are 19 percentage points more likely to say their country should cooperate more with Germany than Germans are to say the same about the U.S . Nonetheless , the share of Germans who want more cooperation with the U.S. has increased by 9 points this year , bringing it closer to 2017 levels .
Overall , Americans are divided when it comes to their level of concern about surveillance programs . In a survey conducted November 2014-January 2015 , 52 % described themselves as `` very concerned '' or `` somewhat concerned '' about government surveillance of Americans ' data and electronic communications , compared with 46 % who described themselves as `` not very concerned '' or `` not at all concerned '' about the surveillance . Those who followed the news about the Snowden leaks and the ensuing debates were more anxious about privacy policy and their own privacy than those who did not . The public generally believes it is acceptable for the government to monitor many others , including foreign citizens , foreign leaders and American leaders . Yet 57 % said it was unacceptable for the government to monitor the communications of U.S. citizens . At the same time , majorities supported monitoring of those particular individuals who use words like `` explosives '' and `` automatic weapons '' in their search engine queries ( 65 % said that ) and those who visit anti-American websites ( 67 % said that ) .
While only about a quarter of U.S. Hispanics say they have heard the term Latinx , awareness and use vary across different subgroups . Young Hispanics , ages 18 to 29 , are among the most likely to have heard of the term – 42 % say they have heard of it , compared with 7 % of those ages 65 or older . Hispanics with college experience are more likely to be aware of Latinx than those without college experience ; about four-in-ten Hispanic college graduates ( 38 % ) say they have heard of Latinx , as do 31 % of those with some college experience . By comparison , just 14 % of those with a high school diploma or less are aware of the term .
In each of the 10 years Pew Research Center has been tracking religious restrictions ( 2007 to 2016 ) , China has been near the top of the list of most restrictive governments . In 2016 , the most recent year for which the Center has religious restrictions data , the Chinese government was the most restrictive toward religious groups among all the 198 countries included in the study ( it scored 8.8 out of 10 on the Government Restrictions Index ) .
A majority of U.S. teens ages 13 to 17 ( 57 % ) fear a shooting could happen at their school , and most parents of teens share their concern . Nonwhite teens express greater concern over the possibility of a shooting at their school than white teens , and girls are more likely than boys to cite such concern . Most parents also share the concern of a shooting at their children 's school . More than eight-in-ten teens and adults say preventing people with mental illnesses from purchasing guns and improving mental health screening and treatment would be effective at preventing school shootings .
The rate from March 2007 to April 2008 was 17 % ; this compares to the 12 % growth rate from March 2006 to March 2007 . It is also worth noting that the April 2008 number for broadband adoption at home is little changed from the 54 % figure from the Pew Internet Project 's December 2007 survey . With growth in broadband at home , now just 10 % of Americans have dial-up internet connections at home .
While Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say partisan divisions are increasing , Democrats are more likely to be very concerned about partisan divides in the country . Sizable majorities in both parties ( 80 % of Republicans , 83 % of Democrats ) say they are very or somewhat concerned about divisions between Republicans and Democrats . While 40 % of Republicans are very concerned by this , a somewhat larger share of Democrats ( 48 % ) say the same .
Millennials have surpassed Baby Boomers as the nation 's largest living adult generation , according to population estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau . As of July 1 , 2019 ( the latest date for which population estimates are available ) , Millennials , whom we define as ages 23 to 38 in 2019 , numbered 72.1 million , and Boomers ( ages 55 to 73 ) numbered 71.6 million . Generation X ( ages 39 to 54 ) numbered 65.2 million and is projected to pass the Boomers in population by 2028 .
In early September — amid high-visibility beheadings by ISIS and prior to a primetime speech by President Obama outlining strategy for dealing with the terror group— the public had become more skeptical of the government 's ability to reduce the threat of terrorism . A narrow majority ( 56 % ) said the government was doing very well or fairly well in reducing the threat , which neared a post-9/11 low ( 54 % in January 2007 ) . Since September , positive views of the government 's handling of the threat from terrorism have jumped 16 points to 72 % . That is comparable to the government 's ratings on terrorism during most of the Obama and Bush administrations . The share saying the government was doing very or fairly well in addressing the threat of terrorism reached 88 % in October 2001 , a month after 9/11 ( 48 % said it was doing very well , 40 % fairly well ) .
Currently , 42 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning registered voters say they agree with the Tea Party movement , according to a survey conducted last month . This is little changed over the course of the last year , but down from the height of the movement in 2010 when , in the three months immediately preceding the election , 54 % of Republican voters identified with the Tea Party .
The public 's view about what it takes to be in the middle class appears to have changed dramatically over the past two decades . In a 1991 nationwide Time/CNN/Yankelovich survey , seven-in-ten respondents said homeownership was essential to being in the middle class , while just one-third said the same about having `` a white collar job . ''
Around a quarter of adults ( 23 % ) say it is most likely that the current strain of coronavirus was developed intentionally in a lab ; another 6 % say it was most likely made accidentally in a lab . A quarter say they are n't sure where the virus originated .
Perceptions of neighborhood composition along these lines vary somewhat by community type . The largest gap can be seen on perceptions of neighbors ' racial and ethnic backgrounds : Roughly seven-in-ten rural residents ( 69 % ) say all or most of their neighbors are the same race or ethnicity as them ; significantly fewer suburban ( 53 % ) and urban ( 43 % ) adults say the same .
That represents a shift from four years ago , when far more wanted Obama than Republican leaders to take the lead ( 49 % to 30 % ) . It also is a sharp contrast with the public 's views after the 2006 election – ahead of President George W. Bush 's final two years in office – when by 51 % to 29 % , more preferred Democratic leaders than President Bush to take the lead in solving the nation 's problems .
Many U.S. teens report having religious or spiritual experiences at least once or twice a month . Half feel a deep sense of spiritual peace and well-being at least monthly , while 46 % say they think about the meaning and purpose of life and 40 % report feeling a deep sense of wonder about the universe . The most common experience is a strong feeling of gratitude or thankfulness , reported by 77 % of teens in the survey .
Support for same-sex marriage also has increased among older generations over the past decade . For example , in 2003 , just 17 % of those in the Silent generation – born between 1928 and 1945 – favored same-sex marriage ; today 31 % do .
About three-quarters ( 77 % ) of college-educated newsroom employees have undergraduate degrees in the arts and humanities , more than three times the share among all other college-educated workers in the U.S. ( 23 % ) . College-educated workers in other occupations and industries , by comparison , are much more likely than those working in newsrooms to have bachelor 's degrees in science , engineering and related fields ( 45 % vs. 16 % ) and business ( 22 % vs. 5 % ) , as well as education ( 10 % vs. 3 % ) .
When asked about the possibility of influencing the internal affairs of other countries , Russians are divided on their own government 's actions . Nearly equal numbers say the Russian government mostly stays out of the internal affairs of other countries ( 46 % ) as say it does try to influence other nations ( 45 % ) . Young Russians ( ages 18 to 29 ) are more likely to say Russia tries to interfere abroad ( 56 % ) than those 50 and older ( 41 % ) . Those Russians who lack confidence in Putin are also more willing to say Russia tries to influence other countries ( 63 % ) . However , Russians clearly see the U.S. as an interfering power , with 85 % saying the U.S. tries to shape the internal affairs of other countries versus only 9 % who say the U.S. stays out . In looking at other countries , roughly six-in-ten in Russia say that Canada ( 62 % ) and China ( 61 % ) avoid meddling , but 48 % say that Germany does try to influence the affairs of other countries .
Bleak views of national economic conditions are increasingly held across party lines . At the time of the 2006 mid-term elections , the condition of the economy was a partisan issue with 70 % of Republicans calling conditions excellent or good compared with only a quarter ( 25 % ) of Democrats . Republicans have soured on the economy over the past two years ; the share of Republicans rating economic conditions as excellent/good has fallen from 70 % in November 2006 , to 46 % in September 2007 , to 14 % today . As a result , the party gap on this issue has steadily diminished .
Most of the public says learning that a friend voted for Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton would not have any effect on their friendships . About one-in-five ( 19 % ) say that knowing a friend had voted for Trump would put a strain on their friendship ; 7 % say knowing a friend had voted for Clinton would strain their friendship .
A recent survey from the Pew Research Center found that a majority of Americans ( 55 % ) believe the Trans-Pacific Partnership is a good thing , while just 25 % think the agreement will be bad for the country and 19 % do n't have an opinion . While more Democrats ( 59 % ) and independents ( 56 % ) support the trade pact , roughly half of Republicans ( 49 % ) also see U.S. membership in the TPP as positive . Americans ages 18 - 29 are also more likely than their older counterparts to view the agreement favorably . Americans embrace the idea of expanding trade relations specifically with Japan . Fully 74 % in the U.S. say increased trade with Japan would be a good thing , and 29 % think it would be very good for the U.S . The belief that increased trade with Japan is a very good thing is shared across the political spectrum and has strong backing among the college-educated , 42 % of whom hold that view .
Large majorities of Americans say the tone and nature of political debate in the United States has become more negative in recent years . More than eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 85 % ) say that political debate in the country has become more negative and less respectful , according to a survey conducted this spring . About three-quarters ( 76 % ) say it has become less fact-based and 60 % say it has become less focused on issues . Donald Trump is a major factor in people 's views about the state of the nation 's political discourse . A majority ( 55 % ) say Trump has changed the tone and nature of political debate for the worse , while fewer than half as many ( 24 % ) say he has changed it for the better . One-in-five Americans say he has had little impact .
Finally , on the topic of immigration , Americans and Germans diverge somewhat about whether they want more , less or about the same level of immigration to their country . A plurality of Americans want to keep immigration levels about the same as they have been , with 24 % wanting more immigrants in their country and 29 % wanting fewer immigrants or none at all ( `` None '' is a volunteered category ) .
Fully 97 % of smartphone owners used text messaging at least once over the course of the study period , making it the most widely-used basic feature or app ; it is also the feature that is used most frequently , as the smartphone owners in this study reported having used text messaging in the past hour in an average of seven surveys ( out of a maximum total of 14 across the one-week study period ) . Younger smartphone owners are especially avid users of text messaging , but this group has by no means abandoned voice calls — 93 % of smartphone owners ages 18 - 29 used voice or video calling on at least one occasion during the study period , and reported doing so in an average of 3.9 surveys . Three smartphone features in particular — social networking , watching video , and listening to music or podcasts — are especially popular with younger users . Fully 91 % of smartphone owners ages 18 - 29 used social networking on their phone at least once over the course of the study period , compared with 55 % of those 50 and older ( a 36-point difference ) . These young smartphone owners reported using social networking in an average of 5.6 surveys , tied with internet use as the second-most frequent smartphone behavior among young adults after text messaging . Features such as watching video and listening to music or podcasts are even more the domain of young smartphone owners . Three-quarters of younger smartphone owners ( 75 % ) indicated using their phone to watch videos at least once over the study period , compared with 31 % of those 50 and older ( a difference of 44 percentage points ) . And 64 % of younger adults used their phones at one time or another to listen to music or podcasts — a 43-point difference compared with the 21 % of older users who did so .
Since the onset of the Great Recession in 2007 , the share of Americans who say they trust the federal government to do what is right either just about always or most of the time has hovered near 20 % . This remains true today , with 2 % saying they trust the government just about always and 18 % saying they trust the government most of the time . Nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) say they trust the federal government to do what is right either some of the time ( 65 % ) or never ( 14 % ) .
In France , Germany , South Korea and Mexico , eight-in-ten or more disapprove of pulling out of these trade agreements . Roughly half of Russians ( 49 % ) disapprove , compared with 28 % who approve . Climate change , and specifically the Paris climate accord , will also be on the agenda during the G20 summit . And although the Center 's survey was fielded before Trump 's announcement that the U.S. would leave the accord , most people in G20 member countries say they disapprove of his stated plan to do so . The strongest disapproval is in Germany , where 93 % disapprove of the plan to leave the climate accord . But there is also strong disapproval across Western Europe , East Asia and Latin America . In the U.S. , 67 % disapprove of Trump 's plan to leave the climate change agreement , though again , Democrats express more disapproval on this policy ( 88 % disapprove ) than Republicans ( 34 % ) . In India , the country with the fourth-largest carbon dioxide emissions behind China , the U.S. and the EU , 32 % approve of Trump 's pulling out of climate accords , but 25 % disapprove and most ( 43 % ) do not have an opinion .
By contrast , Clinton voters express little or no confidence in Trump to deal with major issues . And while a majority of Clinton voters ( 58 % ) say they are `` willing to give Trump a chance and see how he governs as president , '' nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say they ca n't see themselves giving Trump a chance `` because of the kind of person he has shown himself to be . ''
Between 1980 and 2000 , immigration was the principal driver of Latino population growth as the Latino immigrant population boomed from 4.2 million to 14.1 million . Since then , however , the primary source of this growth has been U.S. births . Between 2000 and 2010 , there were 9.6 million Latino births in the U.S. , while the number of newly arrived immigrants was 6.5 million . The present decade is on track to repeat this pattern , with 5 million Latino births in the U.S. between 2010 and 2015 , compared with just 1.9 million newly arrived Latino immigrants .
As our surveys found throughout the campaign , voters view the 2016 contest as extraordinarily negative . Fully 92 % say there was more `` mudslinging '' or negative campaigning than in past elections – which is 20 percentage points higher than the previous high ( 72 % after the 2004 election ) .
Similarly , when asked about their country 's current political life , 64 % expressed a positive view of Islam 's role in politics . ( This included 40 % who saw Islam playing a large role and who thought this was good , and 24 % who saw Islam playing only a small role and who thought this was bad ) . However , while majorities were attracted to the Saudi model and seemed to welcome Islam 's expanded influence , support for Islam 's role in politics was significantly lower than in 2010 , when 82 % had seen Islam as a positive force in Egypt 's political life . Meanwhile , the number of people who saw Islam playing a big role in politics and who said this was a bad thing was up 19 percentage points over the same two-year period ( 20 % vs. 1 % ) .
There is a strong relationship between smartphone ownership and per capita gross domestic product . Those in wealthier countries tend to report owning a smartphone in higher shares than those in less wealthy nations . However , the relationship is not perfect . Smartphone ownership in Lebanon is just below that of South Korea , even as Lebanese have less than half the per capita income of South Koreans .
Americans generally express more worry than enthusiasm when asked about these automation technologies . Most prominently , Americans are roughly twice as likely to express worry ( 72 % ) than enthusiasm ( 33 % ) about a future in which robots and computers are capable of doing many jobs that are currently done by humans . They are also around three times as likely to express worry ( 67 % ) than enthusiasm ( 22 % ) about algorithms that can make hiring decisions without any human involvement . By comparison , public views towards driverless vehicles and robot caregivers exhibit more balance between worry and enthusiasm .
Historically , there have been modest differences between generational groups in trust in government and that remains the case today . Currently , 19 % of Millennials ( now ages 23 - 38 ) report trusting the government , similar to the shares of older generations who say the same . Trust in government remains at or near historically low levels across generational lines .
In my written statement , I will cover a range of research findings about unauthorized immigrants : I start with national and state trends in the size and growth of the unauthorized immigrant population . These trends are analyzed with regard to the national origins of the unauthorized immigrants , focusing on those from Mexico . Then I turn to a discussion of the number of unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. labor force and changing patterns over time . Finally , I examine the industries and occupations where unauthorized immigrants are represented with a discussion of differences across the states . This testimony draws heavily from a report the Pew Research Center released last November ( Passel and Cohn , 2014 ) and a new report we are releasing today ( Passel and Cohn , 2015 ) . The unauthorized immigrant population in the U.S. peaked at 12.2 million in 2007 after growing steadily by about half a million per year from 3.5 million in 1990 . After 2007 , the trend changed abruptly and the numbers dropped dramatically by about 1 million over the next two years to 11.3 million in 2009 as the number of new unauthorized immigrants arriving plummeted and large numbers left the country . Since 2009 , the national unauthorized immigrant population has remained essentially unchanged as arrivals and departures have come into rough balance . ( See Figure 1 . ) From 1990 to 2007 , the number of unauthorized immigrants increased in every state , but growth was slower in the six states with the largest unauthorized immigrant populations than in the rest of the nation as a whole . California , the state with the largest number of unauthorized immigrants in all years , experienced the largest numerical growth , but its 88 % increase from 1990 to 2007 was slower than that of other large states and nearly all smaller states . As a group , the other five largest states ( Florida , Illinois , New Jersey , New York and Texas ) experienced growth in their unauthorized immigrant population at the national average of 250 % over the period . Meanwhile , the unauthorized immigrant population in the rest of the country increased almost sevenfold , from 700,000 in 1990 to 4.7 million in 2007 .
Americans and Germans have quite different opinions about whether the current relationship between the two countries is good or bad . Almost seven-in-ten Americans ( 68 % ) say relations between the U.S. and Germany are good , while only 22 % say they are bad . Meanwhile , a majority of Germans ( 56 % ) say that relations with the U.S. are at least somewhat bad , with only 42 % saying they are positive .
Witnessing online harassment has led some bystanders to change their online behavior . Roughly one-quarter of Americans ( 27 % ) say they have chosen not to post something after witnessing online harassment , while a similar share ( 28 % ) say they adjusted their privacy settings after seeing this type of online behavior . Some users report going a step further : 13 % of U.S. adults have stopped using an online service altogether after seeing others being harassed .
Throughout this timespan , Democrats have consistently expressed more support for leaders who compromise than have Republicans , and this holds true today . Fully 87 % of Democrats like leaders who are willing to make compromises in order to get the job done , compared with 70 % of Republicans .
Nearly 26,000 refugees entered the U.S. from October to December 2016 , close to the quarterly average number of refugees needed to meet the Obama administration 's target of 110,000 refugee admissions in fiscal year 2017 , according to data from the U.S. State Department 's Refugee Processing Center . The 2017 annual ceiling – the highest since 1995 – is significantly higher than last year 's ceiling of 85,000 refugee admissions . Administration officials said they wanted to increase refugee admissions to the U.S. due to the growing number of people displaced by conflicts around the world . In the first quarter of fiscal 2017 ( October to December 2016 ) , almost twice as many refugees have entered the U.S. as in the first quarter of the year before , when nearly 14,000 refugees entered the country .
Male gun owners are more likely than female gun owners to say there is a gun that is both loaded and easily accessible to them all of the time when they 're at home . Some 43 % of men who own guns say this is the case , compared with 29 % of women gun owners . However , among those who own handguns , equal shares of men and women ( 26 % each ) say they carry their gun outside their home all or most of the time .
Divisions along party lines also exist in Latinos ' views about the Obama administration . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Latino Democrats say his administration 's accomplishments will be better remembered than its failures . By contrast , 59 % of Latino Republicans say the failures will outweigh accomplishments . Overall , half of Latinos ( 48 % ) say the Obama administration 's accomplishments will outweigh its failures , while 36 % say the opposite .
These are among the major findings from a Pew Research Center survey conducted among 6,204 respondents in Israel , Jordan , Lebanon , Tunisia and Turkey from Feb. 27 to April 25 , 2017 . Middle Eastern publics see both the U.S. and Russia playing more important roles in the region today than they did 10 years ago . At least half in all of the nations surveyed say Russia is more influential now compared with a decade ago . Lebanon is particularly likely to say Russia 's role has grown , with Shia ( 81 % ) and Sunni Muslims ( 77 % ) sharing this view .
In another finding that reflects diversity within the Latino community on matters of values and identity , just one-in-five ( 20 % ) survey respondents say they most often describe themselves by the pan-ethnic labels `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino . `` 2 A majority ( 54 % ) say they usually use their family 's Hispanic origin term ( such as Mexican , Cuban , Salvadoran ) to identify themselves , followed by 23 % who use `` American '' most often . The survey also finds that when asked which pan-ethnic term they prefer , `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino , '' half ( 50 % ) say they have no preference . The survey finds that half ( 49 % ) of all Latinos say they consider themselves a typical American , while 44 % say they feel different from the typical American—a share that rises to 67 % among immigrants who came to the U.S. in the past five years . The Pew Research Center survey was conducted by landline and cellular telephone , in English and Spanish , from May 24 to July 28 , 2013 among a nationally representative sample of 5,103 Hispanic adults . The margin of error for the survey was plus or minus 2.1 percentage points . For details on the survey methodology , see Appendix A .
But the Japanese public has a mixed view of the trajectory of Japan 's role in the world . Only about a quarter ( 24 % ) believes Japan plays a more important role in the world today compared with 10 years ago . About a third ( 34 % ) says Japan plays a less important role . And 39 % hold the view that Japan 's role is about as important today as it was a decade ago . ( In comparison , 21 % of Americans and 75 % of Chinese think their country is more important . )
While the Democrats gained a sizable advantage in partisan affiliation during George Bush 's presidency , their numbers slipped between December 2008 and April 2009 , from 39 % to 33 % . Republican losses have been a little more modest , from 26 % to 22 % , but this represents the lowest level of professed affiliation with the GOP in at least a quarter century . Moreover , on nearly every dimension the Republican Party is at a low ebb – from image , to morale , to demographic vitality . By contrast , the percentage of self-described political independents has steadily climbed , on a monthly basis , from 30 % last December to 39 % in April . Taking an average of surveys conducted this year , 36 % say they are independents , 35 % are Democrats , while 23 % are Republicans . On an annual basis , the only previous year when independent identification has been this high was in 1992 when Ross Perot ran a popular independent candidacy .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) currently say free trade agreements between the U.S. and other countries have been a good thing for the United States – an increase of 9 percentage points over the past year , and a substantial shift in public opinion since the eve of the 2016 election ( when roughly equal shares said trade agreements were a good thing – 45 % – as said they were a bad thing – 43 % ) . Views of free trade agreements are now more positive than at any point in the last decade . For the first time since the 2016 campaign , more Republicans say free trade agreements have been a good thing for the United States than say they have been a bad thing . Today , 59 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say free trade agreements have been a good thing for the country ; 29 % say they have been a bad thing . The current balance of opinion within the GOP is similar to views in the spring of 2015 , when 56 % said trade agreements were a good thing and 34 % said they were a bad thing . Nearly three-quarters of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 73 % ) now say free trade agreements are good for the country , up from 67 % last spring . Democratic views of free trade agreements have long been more positive than negative , but they are now more positive than at any point since the question was first asked in 2009 .
But Americans ' views of NATO are partisan and have been so for some time . Since 2009 Democrats have generally voiced a more positive opinion of the transatlantic alliance than have Republicans . In 2017 , 78 % of Democrats expressed support for NATO , up from 58 % in 2016 . At the same time , Donald Trump 's criticism of NATO resonates with his political base . Less than half of Republicans ( 47 % ) hold a favorable view of the alliance . The current 31-point partisan divide over NATO compares with only a 6-point gap in 2016 .
While younger teens – 16- and 17-year-olds – are still less likely to work in the summer than their older peers , their overall employment level has increased a bit faster in the post-recession period . Last year 's summer employment rate for 16- and 17-year-olds was 24.1 % , up from 18.5 % in 2010 . For 18- and 19-year-olds , the summer employment rate last year was 46.2 % , compared with 41.6 % in 2010 .
News reports last week about the escalating conflict between Israel and Hamas competed for public attention with stories about the U.S. financial crisis and the Obama presidential transition . Roughly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) paid very close attention to news about renewed fighting in the Gaza Strip , while 18 % say this was the single news story they followed most closely . Still , in a week in which the media devoted more newshole to Middle East coverage than any other story , Americans remained most focused on the continuing economic crisis . Public interest in the first days of the latest Middle East conflict is on par with other recent foreign news stories , but is lower than interest in the Israel-Hezbollah war in August 2006 : 40 % followed news of that conflict very closely . It is important to note that the current survey was already in the field when Israel launched its ground invasion on Jan. 3 , ratcheting up the intensity of the conflict and the media coverage . According to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , reports from the Middle East led all news coverage last week , accounting for 21 % of the newshole . [ For a ranking of recent foreign news stories See `` Strong Advance Interest in Democratic Convention '' released August 21 , 2008 . ]
In a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted in January , 94 % of Democrats say they trust what Trump says less than what prior presidents said , while 58 % of Republicans say they trust what Trump says more than what prior presidents said . Similarly , nine-in-ten Democrats say the ethical standards of top Trump administration officials are poor or not good , while around three-quarters of Republicans ( 76 % ) say the administration 's ethical standards are excellent or good .
Just over half of Americans ( 54 % in a July 2013 Pew Research poll ) support keeping abortion legal in all or most cases . And nearly two-thirds oppose overturning Roe v. Wade , the landmark Supreme Court decision guaranteeing a right to abortion at least during the first three months of pregnancy , according to a January 2013 Pew Research poll . At the same time , most Americans are less supportive of legalized abortion later in pregnancy . A December 2012 USA Today/Gallup survey found that majorities say that abortion should be illegal during the second ( 64 % ) and third ( 80 % ) trimesters of pregnancy .
Yet these concerns are much more widespread among black and Hispanic adults than white adults . And there also are differences in concerns across income levels : A third of Americans with lower incomes say they are very concerned they will get COVID-19 and require hospitalization . Among upper-income adults , only about half as many ( 17 % ) are very concerned . About half of Hispanic adults ( 49 % ) are very concerned about unknowingly spreading COVID-19 to others , compared with 38 % of black adults and 28 % of white adults . And Hispanics ( 43 % ) and blacks ( 31 % ) are far more likely than whites ( 18 % ) to be very concerned over getting COVID-19 and needing to be hospitalized .
Social security numbers are universally considered to be the most sensitive piece of personal information , while media tastes and purchasing habits are among the least sensitive categories of data . At the same time that Americans express these broad sensitivities toward various kinds of information , they are actively engaged in negotiating the benefits and risks of sharing this data in their daily interactions with friends , family , co-workers , businesses and government . And even as they feel concerned about the possibility of misinformation circulating online , relatively few report negative experiences tied to their digital footprints .
A new Pew Research Center survey examines this question through the lens of American public opinion and across a range of scientific topics . We found that a majority of Americans ( 59 % ) say that science is often in conflict with religion , with only 38 % saying the two areas are mostly compatible . Here are five key findings from the report : The least religiously observant Americans are most likely to perceive conflict between religion and science . Some 73 % of adults who seldom or never attend religious services say science and religion are often in conflict , while half of adults who attend religious services at least weekly say the same . Most American adults ( 68 % ) say there is no conflict between their personal religious beliefs and science . For the 30 % who do see a conflict , the most common source of disagreement involves beliefs about evolution and the creation of the universe .
As the solar energy industry gears up to add more electricity-generating capacity than any other source this year , a new Pew Research Center survey finds that almost nine-in-ten U.S. adults ( 89 % ) favor expanding use of solar power , while only 9 % oppose it . That sentiment bridges the partisan divide , with large majorities from across the political spectrum favoring more use of this alternative source .
Black and white police officers have strikingly different views on a number of important issues related to their jobs , including recent fatal encounters between law enforcement and black citizens and the protests that those encounters have sparked , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . On some subjects , racial differences among the police are considerably more pronounced than they are among the public as a whole . Black officers are about twice as likely as white officers ( 57 % vs. 27 % ) to say that recent deaths of blacks during encounters with police are signs of a broader problem and not isolated incidents , according to the survey of nearly 8,000 sworn officers working in departments of 100 officers or more , which was conducted on behalf of the Center by the National Police Research Platform . The general public is also divided by race on this question , but majorities of both blacks ( 79 % ) and whites ( 54 % ) say recent fatal encounters are part of a broader problem and are n't isolated incidents . Views of the protests that have followed these encounters also differ sharply by race , especially among police . About seven-in-ten black officers ( 69 % ) say that the protests are motivated some or a great deal by a genuine desire to hold police accountable for their actions , compared with just 27 % of white officers who hold this view . Among the general public , 79 % of blacks and 63 % of whites say the protests are motivated some or a great deal by a genuine desire to hold police accountable .
Ahead of the first contests in the 2020 election , Democratic voters are highly engaged with the race for their party 's nomination , express positive views of the Democratic field and are united in opposition to Donald Trump . As many national and early primary state surveys have found , Democrats ' preferences for the nomination are divided . Asked an open-ended question about their first choice for the nomination , 26 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters favor Biden , 21 % Sanders , 16 % Warren , 7 % Buttigieg and 5 % Bloomberg .
Program and production expenses for the 123 news-oriented local public radio licensees was $ 446.8 million in 2017 , compared with $ 439.6 million in 2016 . While program and production expenses comprise only a portion of overall station expenses , an increase in these kinds of expenditures indicates that the stations are directing more dollars toward the creation of news content .
A majority of black adults say they have been discriminated against because of their race , but this varies by education . Roughly eight-in-ten blacks with at least some college experience ( 81 % ) say they 've experienced racial discrimination , at least from time to time , including 17 % who say this happens regularly . Among blacks with a high school education or less , these shares are lower – 69 % and 9 % , respectively .
Meanwhile , Russians have soured considerably on major Western powers in just the past few years . Favorable views of the U.S. , Germany , the EU and NATO have dropped by 25 percentage points or more since 2011 . Half of Russians blame Western countries for the crisis in Ukraine , with the Ukrainian government ( 26 % ) a distant second . Russians also say Western sanctions ( 33 % ) , along with falling oil prices ( 33 % ) , rather than their government 's economic policies ( 25 % ) , are responsible for the country 's current economic woes . And 50 % of Russians think NATO is a major military threat to their country ; another 31 % say it is a minor threat while just 10 % believe it is not a threat at all .
More than half of adult cell phone owners used their cell phones while they were in a store during the 2011 holiday season to seek help with purchasing decisions . During a 30 day period before and after Christmas : Detailed findings—online product reviews and calling friends for purchasing advice Online price matching and looking up online reviews frequently go hand in hand . Overall , of the 33 % of cell owners who used their phone recently in a store to look up either product reviews or prices online , roughly half ( representing 17 % of all cell owners ) used their phones to engage in both of these activities .
Nearly two-thirds of Hispanic Millennials are of Mexican origin . Some 16 % are of Caribbean Hispanic origin groups , including 9 % who are Puerto Rican . One-in-ten are of Central American origin , including 4 % who are Salvadoran . And 6 % are of South American origin , including 2 % who are Colombian . The share of Hispanic Millennials who are of Mexican origin is higher than the share that is Mexican among Boomers ( 57 % ) and older Hispanic adults ( 52 % ) . Among Gen Xers , a similar share ( 63 % ) is Mexican . Among Hispanics younger than 18 , almost seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) are Mexican . The share of Hispanics who are of Caribbean origin is lower among younger generational groups than older groups . Only about one-in-six youths , Millennials and Gen Xers have a Caribbean origin , compared with 20 % of Boomers and 26 % of older adults in the Silent or Greatest generations . This is largely due to a smaller share of Cubans among younger Hispanics . For example , among Silent and Greatest generation Hispanics , fully 11 % are of Cuban origin , compared with just 3 % among Millennial adults .
Today , roughly half of both Democrats ( 47 % ) and Republicans ( 48 % ) express a favorable view of the Department of Education . This marks a shift from surveys conducted throughout the Obama administration , when Democrats were consistently more likely than Republicans to view the department favorably . A similar pattern is evident in opinions of the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) . In surveys conducted between 2010 and January 2017 , there was a wide partisan gap in views of the agency : By margins of 20 percentage points or more , Democrats had more favorable views of the EPA than Republicans . That partisan gap is substantially narrower today .
News about the recent gains in the stock market was tracked very closely by 23 % of the public , with 7 % calling it their top story . Interest was lower for Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 's trip to India and Southeast Asia : just 10 % followed the story very closely and even fewer ( 2 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely . Nearly half ( 45 % ) say they did n't follow this story closely at all .
The unrest following the death of Freddie Gray was the top story last week , with a third of the public ( 33 % ) saying they followed developments in Baltimore `` very closely . '' Smaller shares followed news about the aftermath of the earthquake in Nepal ( 22 % ) and reports on the condition of the U.S. economy ( 20 % ) very closely . Similar shares tracked news about the Supreme Court hearing a case on same-sex marriage ( 18 % ) and the candidates for the 2016 presidential election ( 16 % ) .
Americans have long argued about whether nativity scenes and other religious holiday displays on public property violate the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution 's First Amendment . In the 1980s , the Supreme Court handed down two landmark rulings that allow for displays of Christmas crèches , Hanukkah menorah and other religious holiday symbols on public property so long as they do not actively endorse or promote a particular religion or religion in general . In practice , religious symbols that are a part of larger secular holiday display ( containing , say , Christmas trees , Santa Claus and reindeer ) have had a much better chance of surviving a court challenge than those displays that are solely or more overtly religious . Most Americans believe that elements of the biblical Christmas story reflect actual historical events , although the percentage expressing this view has dropped noticeably in recent years . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) say Jesus was born to a virgin , compared with 73 % who said this in 2014 ; 75 % believe he was laid in a manger , down from 81 % . Similarly , the shares who say they believe that wise men , guided by a star , brought Jesus gifts — and that an angel appeared to shepherds to announce the birth of Jesus — also have declined . A slim majority of U.S. adults ( 57 % ) believe that all four of these things actually happened , down from 65 % three years ago . Belief in these events has declined not only among people with no religious affiliation , but among Christians as well . Overall , about one-in-five Americans ( 19 % ) now say none of these things actually happened .
Consistent Support for U.S. Military Action . About six-in-ten Americans ( 63 % ) approve of the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria ; just 26 % disapprove of the campaign . Support is somewhat higher today than for President Obama 's first airstrikes against Islamic militants in Iraq in August 2014 ( 54 % approved ) .
About six-in-ten conservative Republicans ( 62 % ) say climate change policies hurt the U.S. economy , while just one-in-ten think they help the U.S. economy . The balance of opinion is the opposite for liberal Democrats : 57 % of liberal Democrats think that policies aimed at reducing the effects of global climate change generally help the U.S. economy , while only 9 % of this group say climate change policies hurt the U.S. economy . Moderate and liberal Republicans , as well as moderate and conservative Democrats , fall in the middle on this question . Most Americans say climate change is having at least some impact on their local community , but this sentiment is more common among Democrats than Republicans . About six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 62 % ) say climate change is affecting their local community at least some , including 22 % who say it 's impacting their community a great deal . Democrats ( 82 % ) are much more likely than Republicans ( 38 % ) to say climate change is affecting the community they live in .
Yet , in 2009 , there are plenty of fools among us , and the record labels are still hanging on to their broken strings . Granted , consumers are n't spending as much on music as they used to . Record sales for the music industry continue to decline ; the latest reports from Nielsen indicated that total album sales , including albums sold digitally , fell to 428.4 million units , down 8.5 % 14 % from 500.5 million in 2007 .
Nearly half ( 47 % ) say they followed news about Haiti more closely than any other story . Almost two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed news about the debate over health care reform most closely , while 14 % say they most closely followed news about Republican Scott Brown 's win in the race for the late Democrat Ted Kennedy 's U.S. Senate seat . The Haiti earthquake and the Massachusetts election also received the most news coverage last week , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . The earthquake aftermath accounted for 27 % of the newshole , while Brown 's win – and its potential impact on President Obama 's agenda – made up 21 % of coverage . Specific coverage of the health care debate made up just 5 % of the newshole .
The crown prince also is less trusted than other world leaders . In four of five countries , the share who have confidence in Crown Prince Mohammed is among the lowest , compared with other world leaders asked about in the survey . In Israel , Crown Prince Mohammed earns the least confidence among world leaders by a wide margin , trailing the next-least-trusted leaders , French President Emmanuel Macron , Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin by about 30 percentage points . Confidence in the crown prince is tied with confidence in Trump ( 23 % ) among Lebanese , and , among Americans , Crown Prince Mohammed is tied with Putin at 20 % as the least trusted leaders asked about . In Turkey , similarly low shares express confidence in the crown prince 's judgement in foreign affairs ( 14 % ) and that of Emmanuel Macron ( 14 % ) and Trump ( 11 % ) . Only in Tunisia is Crown Prince Mohammed not at the bottom of the list , beating out Trump by a slim margin .
A declining share of children live in two-parent households . Today , 69 % of children younger than 18 are living with two parents , down from 87 % in 1960 . A record-low 62 % of children live with two married parents , while 7 % live with two cohabiting parents . Meanwhile , the share of children living in single-parent households has increased threefold , from 9 % in 1960 to 26 % in 2014 . The rising prevalence of divorce , remarriage and cohabitation has caused other changes in family living arrangements , even among those living in two-parent households . In 2014 , fewer than half of children ( 46 % ) lived in a household with two married parents in their first marriage , down from 73 % in 1960 .
While the presidential campaign topped the public 's news interest and media coverage , Americans also continued to closely track news about the nation 's economy . Nearly two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they followed news about the condition of the economy most closely . Economic news made up 7 % of coverage . Just under four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say they followed news about the economy very closely , a level of interest that has shifted only slightly since the start of the year . One-in-ten ( 10 % ) say their top story was the controversy over Rush Limbaugh 's crude comments about a woman who advocates requiring health care coverage for contraceptives , even for workers at certain religiously affiliated institutions . Twice as many women than men say this was their top story ( 14 % vs. 7 % ) , though men and women are about equally likely to say they followed this news very closely . Overall , 20 % followed this story very closely . Two other foreign stories attracted modest interest . Fewer than two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they followed news about the political violence in Syria very closely ; 6 % say this was their top story . News about the ongoing violence in Syria made up 4 % of coverage .
The 2016 presidential campaign has gotten off to a slow start with voters . A majority of registered voters ( 58 % ) say they have given at least some thought to candidates who may run for president in 2016 , but that is 10 points lower than at a comparable point in the 2008 campaign – the last time both parties had contested nominations . Yet , even at this early stage , the vast majority of voters ( 87 % ) say they care a good deal about who wins the presidency , and 72 % say they care which party prevails .
The public continues to express little confidence that Iran 's leaders will live up to their side of the nuclear agreement . Just 2 % have a great deal of confidence that Iran 's leaders will abide by the agreement , while another 18 % say they have a fair amount of confidence . About seven-in-ten ( 70 % ) say they are not too confident ( 28 % ) or not confident at all ( 42 % ) in Iran 's leaders . These views are largely unchanged since July , though the share expressing no confidence at all in Iran 's leaders to abide by the agreement has risen slightly ( from 37 % to 42 % ) . The public remains somewhat more confident in the ability in of the U.S. and international agencies to monitor Iran 's compliance with the agreement . Currently , 42 % say they have a great deal ( 12 % ) or a fair amount ( 30 % ) of confidence in the U.S. and international agencies to track Iran 's compliance , which is little changed from July ( 46 % at least a fair amount of confidence ) .
Far fewer Americans – 10 % – say they believe social media has a mostly positive effect on the way things are going in the country today . When those who hold these positive views were asked about the main reason why they thought this , one-quarter say these sites help people stay informed and aware ( 25 % ) and about one-in-ten say they allow for communication , connection and community-building ( 12 % ) .
The number of migrant apprehensions at the U.S.-Mexico border rose by 42 % in October and November of 2016 compared with the same two-month period in 2015 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Customs and Border Protection data . The 93,405 apprehensions were the most in any October-November period in at least five years .
People 's views also differ depending on how religious they are . More religious Americans are , on average , less affirming of these enhancements . People high in religious commitment are less likely than those low in religious commitment to want each of these three potential enhancements . And six-in-ten or more of those high in religious commitment consider these enhancements to be `` meddling with nature '' and crossing a line that should not be crossed ( gene editing 64 % ; brain chip implants 65 % ; and synthetic blood 60 % ) . By contrast , majorities of those low in religious commitment are more inclined to see the potential use of these techniques as just the continuation of a centuries-old quest by humans to try to better themselves .
Foreign-born workers , who now comprise 15 % of the U.S. labor force , made notable progress into middle- and high-wage jobs between 1995 and 2005 . During this period , many foreign-born Latinos stepped out of the low-wage workforce and headed toward the middle of the wage distribution . In particular , newly arrived Hispanics proved much less likely to be low-wage workers in 2005 than in 1995 . Higher levels of education and a move from jobs in agriculture to construction aided the progress of Latinos in the wage distribution scale . At the same time , there was a large drop in the proportions of workers born in Mexico and Central America who were in the lowest wage class . Among all foreign-born workers , the strongest gains were made by Asians , who significantly boosted their presence in the high-wage workforce .
In 2012 , more than 46 million voters – almost 36 % of the total – cast ballots in some manner other than at a traditional polling place on Election Day , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of state and federal election data . That figure includes 23.3 million people who cast civilian or military absentee ballots , 16.9 million who voted early ( that is , in person during a specific period leading up to Election Day ) and 6.3 million who mailed in their ballots . The share of the total electorate that such nontraditional voting represents has grown rapidly over the past few election cycles . In 2004 , according to our analysis , about 22 % of the total vote was nontraditional ; by 2008 , nearly a third was . Those findings are broadly in line with the Census Bureau 's post-election surveys , which ask people whether they voted on or before Election Day and whether they did so in person or by mail . In 1996 , the first year those questions were asked , 10.5 % of voters reported using what the Census calls an `` alternative '' method – either voting by mail or in person before Election Day . By 2012 , the alternative-voting share had risen to 32.8 % .
But Fewer See Need to Sacrifice Civil Liberties . Yet fewer Americans think it will be necessary to sacrifice civil liberties to combat terrorism than did so shortly after the 9/11 attacks . In a poll conducted in 2011 , shortly before the 10th anniversary of 9/11 , 40 % said that `` in order to curb terrorism in this country it will be necessary for the average person to give up some civil liberties , '' while 54 % said it would not . A decade earlier , in the aftermath of 9/11 and before the passage of the Patriot Act , opinion was nearly the reverse ( 55 % necessary , 35 % not necessary ) .
More than a quarter of Americans ( 27 % ) say this year 's State of the Union address is less important than those in the past . A year ago , in the wake of Bush 's major speech outlining the troop surge in Iraq , just 16 % saw the 2007 State of the Union address as less important than those in past years , while 32 % said it was more important .
U.S. births outside of marriage have declined since 2008 , primarily among immigrant women . Over the long term , nonmarital births had been on the rise in the U.S . In 2014 , 40 % of all U.S. births were to unmarried women , up from 21 % of births in 1984 . Among foreign-born women , the share of births that occurred outside of marriage hit a high of 37 % in 2008 and has since fallen steadily . Among U.S.-born women , the share of babies born outside of marriage has held steady over that same period . While foreign-born women have always been less likely to have babies outside of marriage than U.S.-born women , the roughly 10-percentage-point gap in this measure in 2014 ( 42 % vs. 33 % ) is the widest since data became available in 1984 .
Just more than one-in-ten ( 13 % ) say they followed reports about the arrest of members of a Christian militia group in Michigan who were allegedly planning to kill a police officer ; 4 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the arrests made up 5 % of the newshole . And 10 % say they very closely followed news about a series of suicide bombings in Russia ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The stories accounted for 4 % of coverage .
Publics in the Middle East tend to see Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan more positively than other Middle Eastern leaders . Yet , views of the Turkish president vary drastically across the region . Fewer than half in Lebanon and only 15 % in Israel express a positive opinion of Erdogan . Israeli Jews ( 4 % ) and Lebanese Shia Muslims ( 7 % ) hold particularly negative views .
Asked whether the pro-science demonstrators were driven to act by the Trump administration 's handling of science issues , 48 % say they think opposition to Trump was a major reason people participated , 22 % say it was a minor reason , 17 % say it was not a reason at all and 13 % say they do not know . Fully 63 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say opposition to Trump was a major reason for marchers ' participation , compared with 36 % of Republicans and Republican leaners who say this . Those following news about the recent science marches are particularly likely to believe that opposition to the new administration 's handling of science issues is a motivating factor for the recent protests . Some 55 % of those who had heard at least a little about these marches say opposition to the Trump administration 's handling of science issues was a major reason for the protests , compared with 37 % who had heard nothing about these science marches .
Young households with student debt are much more likely to have car loans and credit card debt , too . And their typical total indebtedness ( including mortgage debt , vehicle debt , credit cards , as well as student debt ) is almost twice the overall debt load of similar households with no student debt .
The number of refugees entering the United States each month has declined sharply so far in fiscal 2017 , falling from 9,945 in October 2016 to 3,316 in April 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. State Department data . All but four states reported declines in monthly arrivals .
The generation of Central and Eastern Europeans who came of age after the fall of the Berlin Wall and collapse of the Soviet Union differs little in its political outlook from earlier generations weaned on communist ideology and anti-Western propaganda . Today , support for democracy is relatively tepid among both age groups . Majorities in most countries across the region are upbeat about free markets , with similar levels of support among young and old , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of adults in 18 Central and Eastern European countries .
When asked to pick among three choices , 50 % said that climate change is occurring mostly because of human activity such as burning fossil fuels , 23 % said that climate change is mostly because of natural patterns in earth 's environment , and another 25 % said there is no solid evidence the earth is getting warmer . That contrasts with views among scientists ; fully 87 % of AAAS scientists say the earth is warming due to human activity , 9 % say the earth is warming due to natural changes in the earth 's environment and just 3 % say there is no solid evidence that the earth is getting warmer . Seniors ( ages 65 and older ) are less inclined than other age groups to say that climate change is mostly due to human activity and more among this group say there is no solid evidence of warming . Those with a college degree are more likely than those with less education to say that climate change is occurring due to human activity . Men and women hold similar views on this issue .
Black and white Americans have profoundly different views on racial equality , and a new survey finds they also differ on the extent to which a person 's race can be a burden or a benefit . For blacks , the answer is clear : 65 % say `` it is a lot more difficult to be black in this country than it is to be white . '' Fewer than half as many whites ( 27 % ) agree . Among Hispanics , 37 % say it is lot more difficult to be black than white , which is higher than the share of whites who say this but far lower than the number of blacks who do so . Most Hispanics say white people benefit from advantages in society that blacks do not have ; 33 % say whites benefit a great deal from these circumstances , compared with 62 % of blacks and 13 % of whites .
Many of the typology groups express very different opinions about business than they do about Wall Street . On the question of business profits , 54 % of the public says that businesses make too much profit , while 39 % say that most corporations make a fair and reasonable profit . Staunch Conservatives , who express mixed views of Wall Street , overwhelmingly see corporate profits as reasonable ( by 78 % to 13 % ) . But Main Street Republicans are highly critical of corporate profits ; 58 % say businesses make too much profit , while only about a third ( 34 % ) say most corporations make a fair profit .
Americans last week followed the dramatic emergency landing of US Airways flight 1549 in New York 's Hudson River as closely as they followed news about the nation 's number one problem : the troubled economy . One-in-four say the crash – which resulted in no fatalities and turned pilot Chesley Sullenberger into a national hero – was the story they followed most closely last week , while 23 % say they followed economic developments most closely . The crash and quick rescue of all passengers and crew from the river 's freezing water captured the very close attention of 44 % of the public , according to the latest Pew Research Center weekly News Interest Index survey conducted Jan. 16 - 19 . That compares with 43 % who say they followed economic news very closely last week .
Americans focused most closely last week on news about the nation 's struggling economy and President Obama 's plans to draw down U.S. troops in Afghanistan . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say the economy was their top story , while 16 % say they followed the discussions in Washington about troop levels in Afghanistan more closely than any other top story , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted June 23 - 26 among 1,005 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Those two stories also topped news coverage last week , with the economy accounting for 16 % of the newshole and Obama 's troop announcement accounting for 14 % , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . PEJ noted that the long-running war has received only modest coverage in recent years , though media attention generally increases when war developments – such as a shift in strategy or military leadership – take place in Washington .
About one-in-four Americans ( 26 % ) who have been harassed online say an acquaintance was behind their most recent incident , according to a recent Pew Research Center report . And in other cases , targets of online abuse are even more familiar with their harassers : 18 % of those who have been harassed say their most recent incident involved a friend , while 11 % say it involved a family member . Smaller shares say their most recent experience involved a former romantic partner ( 7 % ) or a co-worker ( 5 % ) . Taken together , nearly half of Americans ( 46 % ) who have experienced some form of online harassment say they know the person or persons responsible for their most recent incident – the same as the share ( 46 % ) who say their harasser was a stranger or someone whose real identity was unknown to them . ( The remaining 8 % were harassed by people both known and unknown to them . )
But it is also important to bear in mind that the percentage of Jewish adults who are the offspring of intermarriages appears to be rising . Just 6 % of Jews from the Silent Generation say they had one Jewish parent , compared with 18 % of Jewish Baby Boomers , 24 % of Generation X and nearly half ( 48 % ) of Jewish Millennials . The result is that there are far more Jews of no religion among younger generations of Jews than among previous generations , as shown in the survey report .
The internet users in higher-income households are more likely than others to go online multiple times a day , both at home and at work . Some 86 % of internet users in higher-income households go online daily , compared with 54 % in the lowest income bracket . In many cases , the most noticeable difference in online engagement between various income groups relates to their intensity of use . On any given day , the internet users in the higher-income bracket are more likely than the internet users in lower-income brackets to be doing various online activities . Compared with internet users in other income cohorts , higher-income internet users go online more often compared with other groups : For instance , 55 % are on the internet or are using email several times a day from home . Moreover , the more well-to-do internet users , on any given day are more likely get online news , conduct online research for a product or service , and go online to search for maps or directions . Yet , the online news consumption patterns of this more well off group stand in stark contrast to those living in the lowest income households .1 , 2 , 3
Ethnocentrism also plays a role in this wave of populist views . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) AfD supporters in Germany , a majority ( 56 % ) of National Front backers in France and nearly half ( 47 % ) of Party for Freedom ( PVV ) adherents in the Netherlands say their people 's culture is `` superior to others . '' This sense of national cultural pre-eminence is far less prevalent among the rest of the publics in their countries .
As news about Ebola dominates the airwaves and permeates midterm campaigns , Americans are following the ongoing story at historically high rates . About half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) followed Ebola news very closely last week , elevating the story to our list of most-followed events since 2010 .
But as is the case with most attitudes about the conduct of elections and proposals on voting , partisans are sharply divided in these views . Large majorities of Republicans are confident that the election will be conducted fairly and accurately ( 75 % ) and that all citizens who want to vote will be able to do so ( 87 % ) .
Even so , the current Congress remains on pace to be one of the least legislatively productive in recent history . As of Monday , 165 laws had been enacted since January 2013 , 124 of which were substantive by our deliberately generous criteria ( no post-office renamings , commemorative-coin authorizations or other purely ceremonial laws ) . Both those figures are the lowest of any Congress in the past two decades over an equivalent timespan .
Aside from being asked about their generational identity , respondents also were asked how well each generational term applies . In this case , the differences between Boomers and the other three generations are even starker . Seven-in-ten Boomers ( 70 % ) say the term `` Baby-Boom generation '' applies to them very well ( 31 % ) or fairly well ( 39 % ) . Among other generations , no more than about four-in-ten ( 38 % of Gen X ) say their generational label is a good fit .
The graph below shows how liberals and conservatives in Congress shared stories from different outlets , focusing only on the news outlets that were linked to most often ( 200 times or more ) over the study period . A narrow boxed range in the graphic indicates the extent to which the outlet was linked to by liberals or conservatives in Congress . For example , Breitbart news was linked to nearly 700 times among Republican lawmakers ( particularly more conservative Republicans ) during the study period , and zero times by Democrats in Congress . On the opposite side of the spectrum , there were more than 1,100 links to the Huffington Post by congressional Democrats , but only 89 from Republican lawmakers . In contrast , outlets with a very wide boxed range – such as The Washington Post , The Hill and CNN – were linked to often by both liberals and conservatives in Congress . For example , news links to CNN were shared 1,011 times by Democrats in Congress during the study period , and 1,062 by congressional Republicans . After Trump won the 2016 presidential election , Democrats in Congress became increasingly likely to share national news on Facebook . Between Jan. 2 , 2015 , and Nov. 8 , 2016 – the day of the presidential election – just 8 % of congressional Democrats ' Facebook posts included links to national news stories . From Jan. 20 through July 20 , 2017 , however , that number doubled to 16 % .
Democrats and those without party affiliation far outnumber Republicans among Hispanic registered voters in Florida so far this year . There are about 837,000 registered Democrats and 775,000 unaffiliated voters , compared with 527,000 Republicans ( again as of Aug. 31 ) .
Despite highly negative views of the federal government overall , the public has favorable views of many of its agencies and departments , which were closed by the shutdown . Majorities have favorable opinions of 12 of 13 agencies tested – with the IRS the lone exception ( 44 % favorable ) . Federal workers , hundreds of thousands of whom were furloughed during the shutdown , also are viewed positively : By about two-to-one ( 62 % to 29 % ) , more have a favorable than unfavorable opinion of federal government workers . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 9 - 13 among 1 , 504 adults , finds that just 23 % have a favorable opinion of Congress , while 73 % have an unfavorable view . Dissatisfaction with Congress also is seen in record anti-incumbent sentiment .
The new survey also asked Americans to consider the overall risks and benefits of access to experimental treatments before the completion of clinical trials . ( This process is already happening for some patients with the coronavirus . ) Around six-in-ten Americans ( 59 % ) say the benefits of allowing more people to access experimental drugs outweigh the risks , while 40 % say the risks outweigh the benefits . Republicans are more likely to say the benefits outweigh the risks ( 69 % vs. 29 % ) , but Democrats are about evenly divided ( 50 % vs. 48 % ) . Black adults are more likely than white and Hispanic adults to say the risks of experimental treatments outweigh the benefits : A 57 % majority of black adults say this .
The smartphone is essential for many owners , but a slight majority says it 's not always needed . Some 46 % of smartphone owners said their smartphone is something `` they could n't live without , '' compared with 54 % who said in a 2014 Pew Research Center survey that their phone is `` not always needed . '' Perhaps surprisingly , smartphone owners who depend on their mobile device for internet access are not significantly more inclined than those who have multiple options for going online to say they could n't live without their phone ( 49 % vs. 46 % ) . In addition to being essential for many , smartphone owners are much more likely to have positive views of these devices . For instance , they are much more likely to say smartphones are more helpful than annoying , represent freedom rather than represent a leash , enable connecting rather than being distracting and are worth the cost rather than being a financial burden .
Conflicts in the Middle East , Africa and elsewhere are driving hundreds of thousands of refugees to seek shelter in neighboring countries , Europe and the United States . These crises are the most recent in a long line of conflicts forcing people from their homes . According to data from the State Department 's Refugee Processing Center , more than 3 million refugees in total have arrived in the U.S. since 1975 . A look at where refugees to the U.S. have come from and their number provides a glimpse into global events and the U.S. 's role in providing a safe haven . Of the 84,995 refugees admitted to the United States in fiscal year 2016 , the largest numbers came from the Democratic Republic of Congo , Syria , Burma ( Myanmar ) and Iraq .
More Americans believe Republicans in Congress , rather than the Obama administration , would be mainly responsible if the two sides can not agree on a plan to increase the federal debt limit . About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say Republicans would bear the most responsibility if the debt limit is not raised and the government is unable to borrow more money to fund its operations . A third ( 33 % ) say the Obama administration would be mainly responsible , according to the latest survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press and The Washington Post conducted June 16 - 19 among 1,003 adults . As Vice President Biden holds budget and debt-reduction talks with lawmakers , partisans express strong opinions about which side would be most responsible if no agreement is reached before the limit is hit as soon as early August . About seven-in-ten Democrats ( 72 % ) say Republicans would be mainly responsible . Nearly six-in-ten Republicans ( 58 % ) say the Obama administration would be mainly responsible . But independents are divided : 36 % say Republicans would be mainly responsible , while 34 % say the Democratic administration would be . Another 17 % say the two sides would share responsibility if the debt limit is not raised .
A record 33.7 million Hispanics of Mexican origin resided in the United States in 2012 , according to an analysis of Census Bureau data by Pew Research Center . This estimate includes 11.4 million immigrants born in Mexico and 22.3 million born in the U.S. who self-identified as Hispanics of Mexican origin . The size of the Mexican-origin population in the U.S. has risen dramatically over the past four decades as a result of one of the largest mass migrations in modern history . In 1970 , fewer than 1 million Mexican immigrants lived in the U.S. By 2000 , that number had grown to 9.8 million , and by 2007 it reached a peak of 12.5 million ( Pew Hispanic Center , 2011 ) . Since then , the Mexican-born population has declined as the arrival of new Mexican immigrants has slowed significantly ( Passel et al. , 2012 ) . Today , 35 % of Hispanics of Mexican origin were born in Mexico . And while the remaining two-thirds ( 65 % ) were born in the U.S. , half ( 52 % ) of them have at least one immigrant parent .
All things considered , support for the Republicans and political energy among independents is closely linked to disillusionment with Obama 's policies and the president himself . Fully 69 % of independent voters who say Obama 's policies have made the economy worse favor the Republican candidate in their district – and 80 % say they will definitely vote . Disapproval of the president 's job performance , anger at the federal government and opposition to the health care legislation also are closely associated with support for Republican candidates . Independents who express these views also are highly likely to vote . Conversely , support for Obama and his policies is strongly associated with independents ' support for Democratic candidates ; in fact , 73 % of independents who say Obama 's policies have improved the economy plan to vote Democratic . But far fewer of those who express this opinion say they will definitely vote compared with independents who take a negative view of the impact of Obama 's policies ( 63 % vs. 80 % ) .
As courts and legislatures address the question of whether same-sex couples should be allowed to legally marry , public support for gay marriage continues to grow . Polls in 2011 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press found that an average of 46 % favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally ; about the same percentage ( 45 % ) opposes gay marriage . That marked the first time in 15 years of polling that the public has been evenly divided over this issue . Just two years earlier , in 2009 , a clear majority ( 54 % ) opposed gay marriage while just 37 % favored it . In 1996 , when Pew Research first asked about letting gay couples marry legally , almost two-thirds of the public ( 65 % ) opposed the idea , and just 27 % favored it .
Congressional Democrats hold especially wide leads over Trump – of at least 20 percentage points – on their approaches to the environment , ethics in government , Medicare , health care and Social Security . The Democrats are preferred by smaller margins on foreign policy , immigration policy and gun policy .
Republicans are far more likely than Democrats to express skepticism that social media companies could properly determine which posts should be labeled in this way . More than eight-in-ten Republicans say they have no ( 50 % ) or not much ( 34 % ) confidence regarding social media companies ' ability to determine which posts on their platforms should be labeled . Beyond that , there are notable differences along partisan and ideological lines . Six-in-ten conservative Republicans say they have no confidence in social media companies ' ability to determine which posts on their platforms should be labeled as misleading , compared with 34 % of moderate or liberal Republicans and 11 % each of conservative or moderate Democrats and liberal Democrats .
The Pew Hispanic Center revision to the estimated growth in the foreign-born population was undertaken to account for changes between 2009 and 2010 in the Census Bureau 's assumptions about population composition that underlie the reported ACS estimates . This type of discontinuity in assumptions is not uncommon in government datasets , and government agencies often supply guidance to users on dealing with the issue . Pew Hispanic 's revised estimate smoothes out these discontinuities by employing the Census Bureau 's own revised and consistent set of underlying population estimates .
As the Hispanic dropout rate has declined , the share of Hispanic high school graduates who enroll in college has risen . In 2016 , 47 % of Hispanic high school graduates ages 18 to 24 were enrolled in college , up from 32 % in 1999 . By comparison , the share of college enrollees among 18- to 24-year-old white , black and Asian high school graduates increased more modestly .
Despite souring public sentiment about their domestic economy and some concern about Japan 's declining role on the world stage , the Japanese are outward looking . They believe that involvement in the global economy is good for the country and that Japan should help other nations , particularly developing ones , deal with their problems . Nevertheless , nearly six-in-ten say international trade and investment is good for Japan because it creates new market opportunities and boosts growth . Roughly the same share of the public believes that Japan needs to assist other nations with their problems . Majorities want to increase investment in , trade with , and foreign aid to developing countries . And about half say Japan should take its allies ' concerns into account when making Japanese foreign policy .
President Obama continues to have sky-high job ratings among liberal Democrats — 90 % approve and just 8 % disapprove in Pew Research 's poll earlier this month . Their approval of his job performance is twice the rating given by the public as a whole ( which rose slightly to 45 % after steadily declining over six months ) . But many liberal Democrats are lukewarm about this approval . While 54 % say they strongly approve of the president 's job , about one-in-three ( 32 % ) say they `` not so strongly '' approve of the president . ( The remaining 4 % approve of Obama , but do not say how strongly they approve . ) Although 90 % approval among liberal Democrats is historically a solid showing for Obama , the 54 % share who strongly approve is tied for worst among the 13 times over his presidency that Pew Research has asked about approval strength . This June , the most recent time we had asked about approval strength , 73 % of liberal Democrats strongly approved of Obama and 17 % approved not so strongly of his job .
Cutting-edge biomedical technologies that could push the boundaries of human abilities may soon be available , making people 's minds sharper and their bodies stronger and healthier than ever before . But a new Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults shows that majorities greet the possibility of these breakthroughs with more wariness and worry than enthusiasm and hope . The survey examines public attitudes about the potential use of three emerging technologies that could fundamentally improve people 's health , cognitive abilities or physical capacities . The specific examples were : gene editing to give babies a lifetime with much reduced risk of serious disease , implanting brain chips to give people a much improved ability to concentrate and process information and transfusing of synthetic blood to give people much greater speed , strength and stamina . These are just three of many enhancements that scientists and bioethicists say could arise from biomedical technologies now under development . None of the three are currently available for the purpose of enhancing otherwise healthy babies or adults , though all are in a research and development phase or are being tested in very limited circumstances for therapeutic uses , such as helping patients to recover from a stroke or spinal cord injury . ( For background see `` Human Enhancement : The Scientific and Ethical Dimensions of Striving for Perfection . '' )
There are again some differences in attitudes by demographic characteristics and political affiliation . For example , roughly four-in-ten black adults ( 43 % ) and about a third of Hispanic adults ( 31 % ) say it is very or somewhat important that the professional athletes they support share their political views , but just 15 % of white adults hold this view . In contrast , a majority of white Americans ( 58 % ) say it 's not too or not at all important that professional athletes share their political views .
People in India have grown increasingly negative in their views of Pakistan . As of spring 2017 , 72 % of Indians see Pakistan unfavorably . Almost two-thirds ( 64 % ) have a very unfavorable view of Pakistan , the highest level recorded since Pew Research Center began measuring in 2013 . This dislike cuts across party lines : Supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the rival Indian National Congress party both have a very unfavorable view of Pakistan ( 70 % and 63 % , respectively ) . Only 10 % of Indians see Pakistan favorably .
The American public has clear-cut opinions on both issues at the center of the current debate on immigration policy . A large majority ( 74 % ) favors granting permanent legal status to immigrants brought to the U.S. illegally when they were children , but 60 % oppose a proposal to `` substantially expand the wall along the U.S. border with Mexico '' – a longtime goal of President Donald Trump .
Roughly one-third of Canadians ( 35 % ) view their neighbor to the south positively . A similar share across Europe holds this view ( median of 33 % ) , though favorable opinions range from a low of roughly a quarter in Belgium ( 24 % ) and Germany ( 26 % ) to a high of about four-in-ten or more in the UK ( 41 % ) and Italy ( 45 % ) .
More than half of immigrants ( 54 % ) said their children will be better off financially than they are , compared with 39 % of the U.S. born . Meanwhile , about half of Hispanics ages 30 to 49 ( 51 % ) and those 50 and older ( 47 % ) said so , compared with 39 % of Hispanics ages 18 to 29 .
Differences in presidential voting between men and women largely parallel differences in party affiliation . In Pew Research Center data dating to 1992 , women have been consistently more likely than men to identify as a Democrat or lean toward the Democratic Party . Over the first half of 2016 , 54 % of women identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party , compared with 42 % of men . In 2008 and 2000 – the last two presidential elections with no incumbent candidate – there was a similar difference between men and women in Democratic affiliation .
More than half of Democrats ( 55 % ) say the Republican Party makes them `` afraid , '' while 49 % of Republicans say the same about the Democratic Party . Among those highly engaged in politics – those who say they vote regularly and either volunteer for or donate to campaigns – fully 70 % of Democrats and 62 % of Republicans say they are afraid of the other party .
About four-in-ten Americans rate the ethical standards of Trump administration officials as excellent ( 9 % ) or good ( 30 % ) , while 58 % say they are not good ( 21 % ) or poor ( 36 % ) . Current ratings for the Trump administration 's ethical standards are lower than for those at various points in other administrations dating back to when the question was first asked by ABC News and The Washington Post of Ronald Reagan 's administration in 1983 .
This chart shows historical estimates of net migration from Mexico based on the author 's estimates and projected future levels according to the 3 different projection sources . CONAPO has significantly higher migration than the UN , but does not show much of a decline from the initial values . CONAPO 's assumptions rely on a set of emigration rates but do not fully reflect the new information available from the U.S. Census 2000 on higher levels of migration to the United States during the late 1990s ; if they did , the CONAPO projections might have higher current levels of migration to the U.S. as well as higher projected values .
Additionally , blacks as compared with whites , and those living in the South and Northeast are more inclined to see Zika as a threat to public health . Some 46 % of blacks , compared with 27 % of whites , believe Zika is a major threat to the population . ( The 39 % of Hispanics saying Zika is a major threat is not statistically different than the share saying the same among either blacks or whites . ) These findings are in line with previous surveys showing a higher level of concern among blacks about some health issues , particularly about experimental-health matters . There were also regional differences about the level of threat Zika poses . Some 39 % of Northeasterners and 35 % of Southerners believe the Zika virus is a major threat to the American population , compared with 21 % of Westerners and 28 % of Midwesterners who say they think the threat level is high .
General David Petraeus 's long-awaited progress report on the war in Iraq made the Iraq policy debate last week 's most heavily covered news story — 36 % of all national news coverage was devoted to this story . The public focused intently on Iraq as well . The situation on the ground in Iraq was the most closely followed news story of the week . Roughly three-in-ten Americans ( 31 % ) followed Iraq news very closely and 23 % listed this as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . One-in-four paid very close attention to Petraeus 's report and 14 % said this was their top story of the week . Republicans and Democrats followed the Petraeus story in nearly equal proportions . Independents paid somewhat less attention . Interest in the presidential campaign remained steady in spite of a slight falloff in coverage . Roughly one-in-five Americans ( 22 % ) followed campaign news very closely and 14 % listed this as their most closely followed story . Coverage of the campaign comprised 5 % of the overall newshole .
In that same survey , Greeks expressed relatively high levels of anti-American sentiment . Just 39 % in Greece expressed positive views of the U.S. , among the lowest measured in the spring 39-nation survey . Only publics in Turkey , the Palestinian territories , Egypt , Jordan , and Pakistan thought worse of America . This negative impression of the U.S. coincides with less than stellar views of President Obama . Only about a third of Greeks ( 35 % ) have confidence in the American president to handle international affairs , with 62 % expressing little or no confidence .
Concern about climate change is much less pervasive in the United States , China and Russia than among other leading nations . Just 44 % in the U.S. and Russia , and even fewer in China ( 30 % ) , consider global warming to be a very serious problem . By comparison , 68 % in France , 65 % in Japan , 61 % in Spain and 60 % in Germany say that is the case . Large majorities in every country surveyed believe that global warming is a serious problem , and majorities in 15 of the 25 countries say it is `` very serious . '' By a wide margin , Brazilians are the most concerned about this issue — nine-in-ten in Brazil say it is a very serious problem . Roughly two-thirds or more rate it as very serious in Argentina ( 69 % ) , France ( 68 % ) , South Korea ( 68 % ) , India ( 67 % ) , Turkey ( 65 % ) , Japan ( 65 % ) and Mexico ( 65 % ) . Anxiety about global warming is less pervasive among Israelis ( 48 % ) , Kenyans ( 48 % ) , Canadians ( 47 % ) and Indonesians ( 44 % ) . Moreover , concern about global warming is low among the publics of some big polluters — including the U.S. , Russia and China . Only about four-in-ten in the U.S. ( 44 % ) and Russia ( 44 % ) say that global warming is a very serious problem . The Chinese express the least concern — only 30 % say it is a very serious problem , up slightly from last year ( 24 % ) . Concern about changes in the global climate has increased in many countries since 2008 — including the three Middle Eastern countries of Egypt , Jordan and Lebanon . The share of Egyptians who believe that global warming is a very serious problem has increased 16 percentage points , from 38 % in 2008 to 54 % in 2009 . In Lebanon and Jordan , where roughly four-in-ten said this issue was a very serious problem last year ( 43 % in Lebanon , 41 % in Jordan ) , majorities now rate it as very serious ( 53 % in Lebanon , 54 % in Jordan ) . And today in Nigeria a majority ( 57 % ) rate this environmental problem as very serious , compared with 45 % last year .
Public attitudes about the measles , mumps and rubella ( MMR ) vaccine remain broadly positive in the United States , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . An overwhelming majority of U.S. adults ( 88 % ) say the benefits of the MMR vaccine outweigh the risks – the same share as in 2016 , when the Center last asked this question – while the share who consider its preventive health benefits to be `` very high '' has grown by 11 percentage points during that time ( from 45 % to 56 % ) . A 69 % majority of Americans consider the risk of side effects from the vaccine to be either low or very low , about the same as in 2016 .
Likewise , 28 % of Asians say that what happens to other Asians in the U.S. affects what happens in their own life a lot . Due to sample limitations , the views of Asians could n't be analyzed separately by categories such as gender , age or education . ( For more information , see `` A note about the Asian sample . '' ) When it comes to a sense of linked fate across groups , no more than 20 % of any one racial or ethnic group feels that what happens to any other group impacts them a lot , although more substantial shares say what happens to other groups affects their own lives some . For example , more than four-in-ten white ( 43 % ) , Hispanic ( 46 % ) and Asian ( 49 % ) adults say what happens to black people affects them at least some .
Among Clinton supporters , only her experience , at 32 % , is mentioned as frequently as opposition to Trump . For Trump supporters , opposition to Clinton is among the most frequently cited factors for supporting their candidate , with nearly as many citing his status as a political outsider ( 27 % ) or his policy stances ( 26 % ) .
Currently , 49 % saying their family 's income is falling behind the cost of living , while 40 % feel they 're staying about even and just 9 % feel like they 're getting ahead . These views are little changed over the past two years , though the share saying they are falling behind financially is lower today than in 2014 or early 2015 .
The use of practices like waterboarding began to surface publicly in press reports not long after 9/11 , and when the Pew Research Center first surveyed on the subject in July 2004 , a narrow majority ( 53 % ) said the use of torture to gain important information from suspected terrorists could be only rarely or never justified .
However , the biggest gap between American self-perceptions and how others perceive us is with regard to religiosity . In much of western Europe , the U.S. as a country is considered too religious – our 2005 poll found that majorities in France and the Netherlands and pluralities in Britain and Germany see the U.S. this way . By contrast , a 58 % majority of Americans say their country is not religious enough . On this point , Muslims find themselves in rare agreement with the American public ; majorities in Indonesia , Pakistan , Lebanon , Turkey , and Jordan all believe the U.S. is not religious enough .
But a new Pew Research Center/USA TODAY survey suggests that , at least for the moment , the issue of how best to deal with poverty and income inequality – and whether the government should address these issues at all – divides Republicans and those who lean toward the Republican Party more than it does Democrats and leaners . ( See full table with detailed party breakdowns . ) To be sure , majorities of 60 % or more among Republicans and Democrats across the ideological spectrum agree that inequality is on the rise , and about 90 % of liberal and centrist Democrats say the government should do something about it . But while a 61 % -majority of moderate and liberal Republicans say the government should do something to reduce the gap between the rich and everyone else , 55 % of conservative Republicans do n't want the government to do much or anything at all about inequality . Conservative Republicans are also far more likely than more moderate Republicans to say the government would do more to reduce poverty by lowering taxes on the wealthy and corporations to encourage investment and economic growth ( 70 % vs. 42 % ) ; half of moderate and liberal Republicans say raising taxes on the wealthy and corporations to expand programs for the poor is a more effective way to reduce poverty . And while 78 % of conservative Republicans believe government aid to the poor does more harm than good by making people too dependent on the government , more among moderate and liberal Republicans say it does more good than harm ( 52 % ) than say it has a negative impact ( 40 % ) .
Gardner looked at the 100 largest U.S. metro areas from 1960 to 2010 ; he divided local government jobs into low-earning and high-earning based on median income . Datapoints above `` 1 '' indicate that a group is overrepresented in the given workforce relative to its share of the overall population , while datapoints below `` 1 '' indicate the group is underrepresented . ( If you go to the Urban Institute web page linked above , you can see the breakdowns for each metro area by using the pulldown menu in the chart . )
People polled by telephone are slightly less likely than those interviewed online to say their personal finances are in `` poor shape '' ( 14 % versus 20 % , respectively ) , a Pew Research Center survey experiment has found . The experiment , conducted in February and March , is part of a line of research at the Center looking into `` mode effects '' – in this case , whether findings from self-administered web surveys differ from those of interviewer-administered phone surveys . The Center 's experiment randomly assigned respondents to a survey method ( online or telephone ) . Although it found that political questions , such as whether respondents approve of President Donald Trump , do n't elicit significant mode effects , some other , more personal items clearly do . When asked whether or not they had received financial assistance from a family member in the past year , for instance , just 15 % of phone respondents say yes . That share is significantly higher ( 26 % ) among web respondents .
Perhaps unsurprisingly , many young adults have not given much thought to end-of-life decisions . Just a quarter of adults under 30 say they 've given a great deal of thought to their own wishes for medical treatments at the end of life , while roughly four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say they 've given such matters not much thought or none at all .
The public has some degree of trust in information they are getting about the Ebola outbreak from a variety of sources . A separate survey , conducted Oct. 16 - 19 among 1,000 adults , finds that majorities have at least some trust in the information they are hearing from local hospitals and health authorities ( 22 % a lot , 40 % some ) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( 22 % a lot , 36 % some ) . Most also trust the news organizations covering Ebola at least somewhat ( 19 % have a lot of trust , 38 % have some ) . Democrats are more likely than Republicans to trust the CDC 's information about Ebola While about two-thirds of Democrats have some trust in Ebola information from the CDC ( 68 % vs. 30 % with less trust ) , Republicans are divided ( 50 % at least some trust , 49 % not much or at all ) . And one-in-three Democrats ( 33 % ) have `` a lot '' of trust , compared with 15 % of Republicans . Democrats also place more trust in news organizations covering the outbreak ( 72 % -26 % ) ; among Republicans , 54 % have some trust and 45 % do not .
So far the indications for that are not so good . Recent months have shown signs of economic progress and indications that the Affordable Care Act has begun to achieve its goals . But there is little indication that the unemployment rate 's falling to 6.3 % , the Dow Jones average soaring to a new high and the ACA signing up 8 million people , ( including many young people , ) had any effect on attitudes about these two key issues .
Today , six out of every ten American adults use social networking sites , which are bringing new tone and texture to dating . Among social networking site users with recent dating experience ( whom we define as those who are single and looking or who have been in a relationship for 10 years or less ) , 30 % have used social media to find out more information about someone they were interested in dating . Another 12 % have friended or followed someone on a social networking site because one of their friends suggested they could be a good romantic match . These social media users who are looking for love are particularly likely to be young . Some 41 % of users with recent dating experience between the ages of 18 and 29 have used sites like Twitter or Facebook to get more information on a potential date . An additional 18 % have friended or followed someone from a friend 's recommendation .
It 's common for social media users in the U.S. to see content about sexual harassment or assault . Roughly two-thirds ( 65 % ) of U.S. adults who use social media say that at least some of the content they see on these platforms pertains to sexual harassment or assault . This includes 29 % who say that a great deal of what they see on social media is focused on this issue , according to newly released data from a Pew Research Center survey conducted earlier this year . It is common for social media users from various demographic groups to encounter these types of posts . For example , men are as likely as women to report seeing at least some content related to sexual harassment or assault while using social media .
As U.S. and Western-led airstrikes continue to target Islamic State fighters for control of the Syrian-Turkish border town of Kobane , questions have been raised about the U.S. and Turkey 's 60-year alliance . But even prior to the Islamic State 's push there , Turks have held decidedly negative views of the U.S. going back over a decade , and , additionally , do not much like other foreign powers either . Since we began polling the Turkish people in 2002 , shortly after the 9/11 attacks , never have more than three-in-ten said they have a favorable view of the U.S . But anti-Americanism really spiked in the aftermath of the 2003 Iraq War , when 83 % of Turks held a negative view of America . Today , only 19 % in Turkey like the U.S. , while nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) share a dislike of their NATO ally . ( Unfortunately , we do not have comparable data for American views of Turkey ) . But Turkish distaste for foreign powers does not begin and end with the U.S. On balance , around two-thirds or more Turks express unfavorable views of the European Union , China , Brazil , Russia , Iran and Israel . Turks even dislike Saudi Arabia ( 53 % unfavorable and , notably , the highest favorability percentage ( 26 % ) among all countries we asked about ) . The people of Turkey also hold negative views toward NATO specifically ( 70 % dislike the organization ) . In fact , it is hard to find any country or organization the Turkish people really like , except , of course , Turkey itself . According to our spring 2012 poll , 78 % of Turks said they had a favorable view of their country .
A median of 57 % say immigration increases the risk of terrorism in their countries , while 38 % say it has no impact . Still , in France , Spain and the UK , half or more believe immigration does not increase the odds of terrorism . Even though many people in the nations surveyed say they want less immigration , there is considerable support for accepting both refugees who flee violence ( a median of 77 % ) and immigrants who are highly skilled ( 64 % ) . At the same time , large shares back deporting immigrants currently in the country illegally ( a median of 69 % ) . Majorities in eight of 10 European countries favor taking in refugees , with roughly eight-in-ten or more in Spain , the Netherlands , Germany , Sweden and France expressing this view . Hungarians have the lowest support for this policy , with about a third ( 32 % ) who believe refugees should be allowed into the country .
Hawaii 's abundance of multiracial people with Asian and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander heritage differs from the makeup of the nation 's overall multiracial population ( including adults and children ) . In the U.S. , the multiracial population is more evenly spread among biracial white and black ( 22 % ) , white and Asian ( 18 % ) and white and American Indian ( 16 % ) .
Men are somewhat more convinced than women that Brexit will be a good thing . But an even larger generational divide exists , with only one-quarter of Brits ages 18 to 29 convinced Brexit will be good for their country , compared with 54 % who say this among people 50 and older .
Aside from the Trayvon Martin story and election developments , the public continued to keep a close watch on economic news . Roughly a third ( 36 % ) say they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely , a level little changed in recent months . News about the economy accounted for 6 % of coverage . About three-in-ten ( 28 % ) very closely followed news about the U.S. Army staff sergeant charged last week with killing civilians in Afghanistan ; 12 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the incident accounted for 6 % of coverage . Including these developments , news about Afghanistan totaled 9 % of the newshole . Nearly two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they very closely followed news about the National Football League suspending several coaches involved in paying bounties to players for injuring opponents when they were with the New Orleans Saints ; 8 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Nearly a quarter of men ( 23 % ) say they followed this news very closely , about double the 11 % of women who say this . News about the suspensions made up 1 % of coverage analyzed by PEJ . Just 16 % say they very closely followed news about French police killing a man accused of murdering children and adults at a Jewish school ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the killings and the deadly standoff with police accounted for 5 % of coverage .
The Democratic Party now holds a slight edge over the GOP on taxes and advantages on several other issues . Currently , 43 % say the Democrats can better deal with taxes , while 36 % prefer the Republican Party . In April , the two parties ran about even on taxes .
Independents stand out from partisans in several important ways . They are less politically engaged than Republicans or Democrats – and this is especially the case among independents who do not lean to a party . In a survey conducted last fall , shortly after the midterm elections , partisan leaners were less likely than partisans to say they registered to vote and voted in the congressional elections . About half of Democratic-leaning independents ( 48 % ) said they voted , compared with 59 % of Democrats . The differences were comparable between GOP leaners ( 54 % said they voted ) and Republicans ( 61 % ) .
Views about Erdogan are also correlated with religiosity . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Muslim Turks who pray five times a day assign the prime minister a positive rating . Among those who pray at least once a week but less than five times daily , views are essentially split ( 51 % good , 47 % bad ) . And among those who hardly ever pray or only do so during religious holidays , just 36 % say Erdogan is having good impact .
One factor driving dissatisfaction with the way democracy is working is frustration with political elites , who are often perceived as out of touch with average citizens . Across the EU nations polled , a median of 69 % disagree with the statement `` Most elected officials care about what people like me think . '' Majorities also share this perspective in Russia , Ukraine and the U.S .
The data on Muslim attitudes towards Westerners also reveal a variety of negative views . In the five majority Muslim countries , as well as Nigeria , at least 40 % of Muslims characterize Westerners as arrogant , violent , greedy , and immoral ; meanwhile , relatively few say Westerners are generous or honest . Muslims in these countries are also especially likely to say Westerners are selfish — in all six countries , majorities suggest selfishness is common among people in Europe and the United States . Negative assessments of Westerners are fairly common across all six of these countries , although they are slightly more prevalent in Jordan and Indonesia . In contrast , European Muslims are consistently less likely to associate negative characteristics with Westerners and are more likely to label them as generous and honest . Similar dynamics may be influencing opinions in other Muslim countries as well . Among Muslims in Indonesia , Jordan , Egypt , Pakistan , and Nigeria , attitudes toward the U.S. and American foreign policy also tend to be quite negative , although the EU is held in somewhat higher regard . Still , many sense antagonism from Europe — at least half of the Muslims surveyed by Pew in 2006 in Egypt , Pakistan , Jordan , and Nigeria said that most or many Europeans are hostile toward Muslims .
And as international migration has increased , the breakdown of where sub-Saharan emigrants live has changed . In 1990 , 75 % of emigrants from the region lived in other sub-Saharan countries , a share that dropped to 68 % by 2017 . Over the same period , the share of sub-Saharan emigrants who live in the United States climbed from 2 % to 6 % . This has helped make African immigrants a small but fast-growing slice of the overall U.S. immigrant population . As of 2017 , nearly 1.5 million sub-Saharan immigrants lived in the U.S. , according to UN data .
Nonwhites and the less educated increasingly say they get news on social media . About three-quarters of nonwhites ( 74 % ) get news on social media sites , up from 64 % in 2016 . This means that nonwhites ( including all racial and ethnic groups , except non-Hispanic white ) are now more likely than whites ( 64 % ) to get news on social media . Social media news use also increased to 69 % in 2017 among those with less than a bachelor 's degree , surpassing those with a college degree or higher ( 63 % ) .
On Thursday , the White House announced its latest step in policy toward Cuba by ending a long-standing policy that treated Cubans seeking to enter the U.S. differently from other immigrants . Under the old policy , Cubans hoping to legally live in the U.S. needed only to show up at a port of entry and pass an inspection , which included a check of criminal and immigration history in the U.S. After a year in the country , they were allowed to apply for legal permanent residence . The new policy makes Cubans who attempt to enter the U.S. without a visa subject to removal , whether they arrive by sea or port of entry . Overall , 56,406 Cubans entered the U.S. via ports of entry in fiscal year 2016 , up 31 % from fiscal 2015 when 43,159 Cubans entered the same way , according to the latest U.S. Customs and Border Protection data . Fiscal 2015 saw an even larger surge , as Cuban entries jumped 78 % over 2014 , when 24,278 Cubans entered the U.S. And those 2014 numbers had already increased dramatically from previous years after the Cuban government lifted travel restrictions that year .
Only , in neighboring Canada does a 53 % -majority describe Americans as rude . Interestingly , Americans themselves are more likely to assign that negative characteristic to their fellow countrymen ( 35 % do so ) than are the residents of Great Britain ( 29 % ) , the Netherlands ( 26 % ) and Poland ( 21 % ) . And a scant 12 % of Germans find Americans lacking in politeness .
Most Iranians believe religious figures have a role to play in government , but they 're divided on just how big that role should be . In a 2012 Pew Research Center survey , just four-in-ten Iranians said religious figures should have a large influence in political matters ; 30 % said they should have little or no influence . Younger Iranians , who had lived their entire lives under Iran 's Islamic Republic established after the 1979 revolution , were less supportive than their elders of a large political role for religious figures .
Perceptions of both natural gas and nuclear power fall in between . Three-in-ten Americans see natural gas ( 30 % ) as very effective at minimizing air pollution , 42 % say natural gas is somewhat effective in minimizing air pollution , and 23 % say natural gas is not at all or not too effective . Views of nuclear power are mixed , with 28 % saying the use of nuclear energy is very effective , 27 % saying it is somewhat effective and 35 % saying it is not too or not at all effective in minimizing air pollution .
However , many older adults also attend college . In 2010 , 18- to 24-years-olds accounted for 60 % of the entire college population in the U.S. and 71 % of the full-time college population . As shown in Figure 3 , the long-term trends for enrollments of college students of all ages and ages 18 to 24 have followed a similar trajectory . Both groups set records for enrollments in 2010 .
Following the failure of gun control legislation backed by the Obama administration , most continue to say that Obama stands up for what he believes in ( 76 % ) and that he fights hard to get his policies passed ( 67 % ) . Most also say that Obama is a strong leader ( 56 % ) ; 40 % say he is not a strong leader . However , the percentage saying that Obama is able to get things done has edged down since shortly after Obama 's second inauguration . In the current survey , about as many say Obama is able to get things done ( 49 % ) as not able to get things done ( 46 % ) . In January , Obama was viewed as able to get things done by a 57 % -37 % margin .
Republicans are twice as likely as Democrats to describe China as an enemy , though this is a minority position in both parties . Around four-in-ten Republicans describe China as an enemy ( 38 % ) rather than as a competitor ( 53 % ) or partner ( 8 % ) . Among Democrats , 19 % describe China as an enemy , while 61 % call it a competitor and 19 % say they consider the country a partner .
In views of the Supreme Court 's ideology , the overall pattern of opinion was similar , though there were some differences in the point estimates between the online and telephone surveys : Far fewer adults today said the court was liberal than said this for much of the last decade . This includes declining shares of Republicans and Democrats who expressed this view . As has been true for the last several years , more adults said the Supreme Court is `` middle of the road '' than conservative or liberal . Still , in both the phone and online surveys , larger shares said the Supreme Court was conservative than liberal .
Americans and Germans overwhelmingly agree that their country should do more than less wealthy countries to help solve global problems . Two-thirds or more of both Americans ( 68 % ) and Germans ( 73 % ) say their country should do more to help solve global problems than less wealthy countries . Only about a quarter of Germans ( 24 % ) and three-in-ten Americans disagree with this sentiment . In the U.S. , there are sizable partisan differences : 79 % of Democrats say the U.S. should contribute more to solving global problems than less wealthy nations , while 49 % of Republicans agree . In Germany , supporters of the Greens are most enthusiastic about helping solve global problems . But supporters of the SPD and CDU/CSU are also in favor of Germany contributing more than less wealthy nations . AfD supporters are strongly opposed to Germany doing more to solve world problems than less wealthy countries ; just 36 % support this .
Another kind of survey experiment involves randomly assigning different answer choices to survey questions . A recent survey by the Center asked Americans whether Trump or Democratic congressional leaders should take the lead in solving the nation 's problems . One group of respondents saw only two possible answers : Trump or Democratic leaders . But another group saw an additional answer : both . The experiment showed one consistent pattern : Regardless of the answer options , a greater share of the public said that Democrats should take the lead than said Trump should take the lead . But in the version of the question in which `` both '' was an explicit option , a 54 % majority of Americans chose that response .
Majorities in six nations express an unfavorable opinion of Rouhani , including roughly eight-in-ten in Jordan and Egypt and about nine-in-ten in Israel . In Tunisia , a 44 % -plurality gives him a negative rating .
Democrats and Republicans also differ in their feelings about their own personal safety and in their recent religious attendance habits . For instance , Democrats are far less confident than Republicans in their ability to safely attend services in person : Eight-in-ten Republican congregants ( 79 % ) say that they are `` very '' or `` somewhat '' confident that they could safely attend religious services without catching or spreading the coronavirus , while 44 % of Democratic attenders agree . And among partisans who attend services regularly ( according to a 2019 survey ) , far fewer in each group say they have actually attended in-person religious services in the past month , but , again , Republicans ( 42 % ) are twice as likely as Democrats ( 19 % ) to report doing so .
Debt-to-income ratios have increased for young student debtors , even as they have declined for other young households since 2008 . The typical young , college-educated student debtor household has debts equivalent to two years of income . Young , college-educated households with no student debt and less-educated households with student debt carry half this debt load , or the equivalent of one year of income . Young households that borrowed for college are less satisfied with their personal financial situation than those who did n't and are less likely to say their education has paid off .
Around eight-in-ten U.S. adults say government investments in medical research ( 80 % ) , engineering and technology ( 80 % ) or basic scientific research ( 77 % ) usually pay off in the long run . Only about two-in-ten believe government funding in each of these areas is not worth it ( 19 % for medical research , 19 % for engineering and technology and 22 % for basic scientific research ) .
When asked about the tradeoff between democracy and stability , 54 % of Egyptians say that having a stable government is more important , even if there is a risk it wo n't be fully democratic . Only 44 % think having a democratic government is more important . This is a shift from previous surveys , when Egyptians placed a greater priority on democracy than stability .
While supporters of each candidate are more likely to turn to their preferred candidate 's social media , the data also reveal some political cross-pollination . Among registered voters , one-in-ten Trump supporters go to Clinton 's social media posts , which is similar to the 13 % of Clinton supporters who turn to Trump 's . What 's more , the rate at which these registered voters turn to the opposing candidate 's social media feed is about on par with the rate at which they turn to their preferred candidate 's website or emails : About one-in-ten Clinton supporters ( 11 % ) turn to her website and the same portion turn to her emails , where as 10 % of Trump 's supporters turn to his website and 6 % to his emails . Very few turn to the websites and emails of the opposing candidate .
When asked how the government should provide health insurance coverage , 36 % of Americans say it should be provided through a single national government program , while 26 % say it should continue to be provided through a mix of private insurance companies and government programs . This is a change from about a year ago , when nearly equal shares supported a `` single payer '' health insurance program ( 30 % ) and a mix of government programs and private insurers ( 28 % ) .
After increasing for at least four decades , the share of the Hispanic population that is foreign born began declining after 2000 . Among all Hispanics , the share that was born in another country was 34.4 % in 2015 , down from a peak of about 40 % earlier in the 2000s . The share of adult Hispanics who are foreign born began declining a bit later – 47.9 % of Hispanic adults were born in another country in 2015 , down from a peak of 55.0 % in 2007 .
A majority of Black Americans ( 57 % ) say they personally know someone who has been hospitalized or died as a result of having COVID-19 . Some 46 % of Hispanic adults say the same , compared with about a third of White ( 34 % ) and Asian adults ( 32 % ) . The share of Hispanic Americans who know someone who has been hospitalized or died due to COVID-19 has more than doubled since the spring survey , when 19 % said this .
Majorities in both partisan groups say there is at least some discrimination against many groups , including Muslims , blacks , gays and lesbians , and Hispanics . But the share of Democrats who say each of these groups face discrimination is significantly higher than the share of Republicans who say the same . For instance , 92 % of Democrats , compared with 69 % of Republicans , say Muslims face at least some discrimination .
A solid majority of Americans say the COVID-19 pandemic has changed the way journalists report the news , but they are far less certain about how the outbreak is affecting news organizations ' bottom lines , according to an April 20 - 26 survey conducted among 10,139 U.S. adults as part of Pew Research Center 's Election News Pathways project . About seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 71 % ) say that as a result of the pandemic , journalists have had to change the way they report – either somewhat or a great deal . A total of 28 % say journalists have not had to change how they report much or at all .
Five Star and League supporters are more opposed to the European Union than the rest of the Italian public . Roughly three-in-four who support each of the two parties believe some EU powers should be returned to national governments . Further , majorities of both League and Five Star supporters say they feel this way strongly . Among the rest of the Italian public , a substantially smaller majority ( 55 % ) says some EU powers should be returned to national governments , and just 36 % feel this way strongly . Majorities of League and Five Star supporters also say that EU membership has been bad for the Italian economy ( 68 % and 62 % , respectively ) . But the rest of the Italian public is n't so sure : 42 % say EU membership has been bad for Italy 's economy , while 50 % say it has been good .
Good neighbors can be a blessing , whether they 're people you can trust to water the plants or watch the kids . But building that trust can be hard : Just half of Americans ( 52 % ) say they trust all or most of their neighbors , while a similar share ( 48 % ) say they trust some or none of their neighbors , according to a 2015 Pew Research Center survey .
Despite rising disillusionment with the European project , the euro , the common currency for 17 of the 27 European Union members , remains in public favor . More than six-in-ten people want to keep the euro as their currency in Greece ( 69 % ) , Spain ( 67 % ) , Germany ( 66 % ) , Italy ( 64 % ) and France ( 63 % ) . And support for the euro has actually increased in Italy and Spain since last year .
Why does the crime rate soar among second-generation immigrants compared with their foreign-born peers ? Until recently , most sociologists have explained this increase by noting that many second-generation immigrants feel caught between two conflicting worlds—the old world of their parents and the new world of their birth .
And views of both political parties are negative on balance . For the Republican Party , this is nothing new : Currently , 33 % view the Republican Party favorably while 58 % view it unfavorably . That is identical to opinions of the GOP in January , but continues to be among the most negative ratings for the party in more than 20 years of polling . Opinions of the Democratic Party , meanwhile , are more unfavorable than favorable for the first time since January 2012 : 41 % view the Democratic Party favorably , while 50 % view it unfavorably .
The Pew Research analysis also finds that English proficiency is greater among Hispanic immigrants with higher levels of education . For example , just 15 % of Hispanic immigrants ages 25 and older who have not completed high school speak English proficiently . That share rises to 32 % among those who have only completed high school . Among those with at least a bachelor 's degree , six-in-ten Hispanic immigrants ( 61 % ) speak only English at home or say they speak English `` very well . ''
Muslims are expected to grow faster than Hindus because they have the youngest median age and the highest fertility rates among major religious groups in India . In 2010 , the median age of Indian Muslims was 22 , compared with 26 for Hindus and 28 for Christians . Likewise , Muslim women have an average of 3.2 children per woman , compared with 2.5 for Hindus and 2.3 for Christians . Due to these factors , India 's Muslim community will expand faster than its Hindu population , rising from 14.4 % in 2010 to 18.4 % in 2050 . But , even with this increase , Hindus will make up more than three-in-four Indians ( 76.7 % ) in 2050 . Indeed , the number of Hindus in India will still be larger than the five largest Muslim populations in the world 's biggest Muslim countries ( India , Pakistan , Indonesia , Nigeria and Bangladesh ) combined . India also has a number of smaller religious minorities . In 2010 , approximately 2.5 % of the country 's population was Christian , including members of Scheduled Castes ( historically referred to as Untouchables or Dalits ) who sometimes identify as Hindu when completing official forms . Christians are expected to make up 2.2 % of India 's population in 2050 . Religious turmoil ( between Muslims and Hindus , but also involving Sikhs , Christians and others ) has long been a fact of life in India . The year the country won its independence from Britain , the Indian subcontinent was partitioned along religious lines , into Muslim Pakistan and Hindu India . Even though the separation was intended to ease religious tensions , it led to a spasm of violence that left up to a million dead and more than 10 million displaced .
The coronavirus outbreak has impacted life for millions of Americans , but it has not affected people in the same way . Older Americans are more likely than younger adults to feel their own health is at risk , while younger people are more focused on potential economic threats . The survey , conducted March 19 - 24 , finds that a quarter of adults say the coronavirus outbreak is a major threat to their personal health and finances . About as many ( 24 % ) say it is a major threat to their finances , but not to their health . Fewer Americans ( 11 % ) view the outbreak as a major threat to their health , but not their finances . However , 40 % say it is not a major threat either to their health or their finances . Compared with older age groups , younger Americans are more likely to say that the COVID-19 outbreak is a major threat to their personal financial situation but not a major threat to their personal health .
Public trust in Putin has remained low in Western Europe over the past decade . Poles have shown even lower confidence in Putin , with no more than about one-in-five expressing confidence at any point over the past 10 years . Over the same period , Americans ' confidence in Putin has eroded somewhat , from 30 % in 2007 to 21 % today . After differing by 11 percentage points in 2012 , American and Western European views of Putin have tracked more closely in recent years .
A similar share of Americans report that they read for pleasure , for work or school , or to keep up with current events compared to the most recent time these questions were asked in 2011 . However , the share of Americans who read in order to research specific topics of interest has increased by 10-percentage points over that time frame , from 74 % to 84 % . In some cases , the factors associated with high rates of book readership are the same ones associated with reading for specific purposes . For instance , college graduates are more likely than those who have only attended high school to read books in general – and they are also more likely to read for all four of the specific motivations examined in this survey . At the same time , there is not always such a direct relationship between book reading and overall reading for specific purposes . As noted earlier in this report , young adults are more likely to read books than older adults . And when asked about specific reasons why they might read a range of content , these young adults are much more likely than older adults to say that they read for work or school , or to research a specific topic of interest . However , Americans of all ages are equally likely to indicate that they read ( whether in book form or otherwise ) for pleasure or to keep up with current events .
Fully 72 % of Republicans say that using overwhelming force is the best way to defeat global terrorism . Among Democrats , just 27 % favor the use of overwhelming military force , while 66 % say relying too much on military force creates hatred that leads to more terrorism .
Internet users in emerging countries are relatively advanced in their use of social media , compared with the U.S . Even though a smaller share of adults are online in other countries , those who use the internet are avid social media users . Our latest U.S. survey shows that 73 % of internet users are social networking site users . By comparison , in 20 of 24 nations surveyed , seven-in-ten or more internet users participate in sites like Facebook and Twitter , including slightly less than nine-in-ten internet users in Egypt ( 88 % ) , Russia ( 86 % ) , and the Philippines ( 86 % ) . Only in China do less than a majority of internet users access a social networking site . That means that many of the countries in our global survey show a higher share of internet users as social media aficionados . However , it is important to note that internet access is much less common in all of these emerging and developing countries compared to the U.S. , so as a total proportion of the population social networking usage is still practiced only among a minority in most of the countries surveyed . But those who go online in poorer countries are early adopters and they are enthusiastic to try the newest digital technology applications . Thus , these countries have a relatively modest share of their entire population online , but those who are online are eager for social media to a greater degree than Americans are .
Many Republicans , by contrast , think Democrats fall short on several traits . While more than half of Republicans ( 52 % ) view Democrats as more closed-minded than other Americans , nearly as many say Democrats are more immoral ( 47 % ) , lazier ( 46 % ) and more dishonest ( 45 % ) .
Currently , 78 % of Democrats approve and just 19 % disapprove of the Affordable Care Act ( ACA ) , little changed in recent years . Among Republicans , just 9 % approve and 89 % disapprove of the law . The share of Republicans who approve of the law rose from 11 % in February 2015 to 18 % last July , before falling back to 9 % in the new survey . Independents ' support for the law also has declined since July , from 45 % to 39 % . That change has come entirely among independents who lean toward the Democratic Party . Currently , 59 % of Democratic-leaning independents approve of the health care law , compared with 71 % last summer . Only about one-in-five Republican-leaning independents ( 18 % ) approve of the law , little changed since July ( 17 % ) .
While Republicans are split over who would ultimately bear the cost of the wall , a wide majority thinks a border wall would lead to a reduction in illegal immigration into the U.S . Overall , 58 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say that a wall along the entire U.S.-Mexico border will lead to a major reduction in illegal immigration ; an additional 27 % say it would lead to a minor reduction . Just 13 % of Republicans think a border wall would not have much impact on illegal immigration . Conservative Republicans ( 65 % ) are more likely than moderate and liberal Republicans ( 44 % ) to say a border wall would lead to a major reduction in illegal immigration . Democrats have far less confidence that a border wall would curtail illegal immigration . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) say a wall would not have much impact , compared with only about a third who say it would lead to either a major ( 9 % ) or minor ( 24 % ) reduction in illegal immigration . A wide majority of liberal Democrats ( 71 % ) say a wall would not have much impact ; a somewhat smaller majority of conservative and moderate Democrats say the same ( 58 % ) . A little more than half of blacks ( 57 % ) and Hispanics ( 55 % ) say that a wall would not have much impact on reducing illegal immigration . Among whites , views are mixed : 38 % say a wall would not have much impact on illegal immigration , compared with 35 % who anticipate a major reduction and 25 % who anticipate a minor reduction .
The majority of mobile news users get most of their news through the browser : In 2012 , 60 % of tablet news users and 61 % of smartphone news users get news mostly from their device 's browser . Less than half as many , 23 % of tablet news users and 28 % of smartphone news users , mainly use apps . And 16 % and 11 % , respectively , say they use apps and the browser equally .
Obama 's job approval rating has dropped over the last few months and has now edged into negative territory . Today , 44 % of Americans approve of the way he is handling his job , while 49 % disapprove . As recently as June , more approved of his performance than disapproved ( 49 % vs. 43 % ) . Obama 's current job rating matches previous lows in the summer and fall of 2011 .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted April 14 - 21 among 1,507 adults interviewed in English and Spanish on landlines and cell phones , finds that Obama 's job ratings on several specific domestic issues are on balance positive , but also reflect the division of opinion about many of his policies . For example , 60 % approve of his handling of the economy generally , while 33 % disapprove . Fewer ( 50 % ) approve of his handling of the budget deficit , compared with 39 % who disapprove . Obama gets better ratings on foreign policy and terrorism – issues on which he trailed John McCain during last year 's presidential campaign – than on health care , tax policy or the budget deficit . The balance of opinion regarding Obama 's performance on foreign policy and terrorism is largely unchanged since February .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Mar . 25 - 29 among 1,500 adults , finds widespread doubts about how the death penalty is applied and whether it deters serious crime . Yet a majority ( 63 % ) says that when someone commits a crime like murder , the death penalty is morally justified ; just 31 % say it is morally wrong , even in cases of murder .
More than six-in-ten Americans ( 63 % ) say they prefer news sources with no particular point of view , while 29 % prefer sources that have a political point of view . The preference for news without a political point of view is even stronger when it comes to online news : 74 % of those who get news online want it to come without a political point of view , while just 19 % prefer online sources that have a point of view .
Conservative Republicans are particularly skeptical that policies can make a difference in addressing climate change . Just one-quarter of conservative Republicans say climate change policies do more good than harm for the environment , while about half ( 47 % ) say such policies make no difference for the environment and 26 % think such policies do more harm than good . By contrast , a large majority of liberal Democrats ( 81 % ) say climate change policies have net benefits for the environment .
Strikingly , Muslim Americans are far more satisfied with the way things are going in the country ( 56 % ) than is the general public ( 23 % ) . Four years ago , Muslim Americans and the public rendered fairly similar judgments about the state of the nation ( 38 % of Muslims vs. 32 % of the general public were satisfied ) .
Perhaps surprisingly , responses to this question were negatively correlated with one measure of national well-being , the United Nations ' Human Development Index ( HDI ) . Countries with higher HDI scores have , on average , higher gross national income per capita , longer expected lifespans and higher educational expectations and attainment . Yet people in countries with higher HDI scores are less likely to say their day has been particularly good . In 2014 , we similarly found that a country 's GDP per capita was negatively correlated with the percentage of people who said their day was good .
While more-educated women have the highest chances for a long-term marriage , college-educated men also stand out . Roughly two-thirds ( 65 % ) of men with a bachelor 's degree could expect that , if they marry , their first marriage will last 20 years or longer , compared with 50 % of men with a high school diploma or less . In addition , men with a higher level of education are more likely to get married in the first place when compared with less-educated men . There also are distinctive patterns in marriage longevity by race and ethnicity . Some of these differences could be related to educational differences among adults with different racial or ethnic backgrounds . Asian women , who are among the most educated , are more likely than any other racial or ethnic group to have a long-term marriage . For Asian women who were married for the first time between 2006 and 2010 , the chance that they may celebrate their 20-year wedding anniversary is nearly 70 % . By contrast , about half of Hispanic and white women may see their marriages last that long . And for black women , the chance is 37 % .
In both parties , there are ideological differences in views of whether conversations with those they disagree with politically are stressful or not . Among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents , 63 % of liberals say such conversations are stressful and frustrating , compared with 51 % of conservatives and moderates .
This year 's conference comes at a sensitive time for AIPAC , which has been at odds with the White House over a Senate bill that would impose new sanctions on Iran for its nuclear program . When we asked Americans in 2012 what the U.S. should do if Israel attacks Iran to stop Iran 's nuclear program , 64 % of white evangelicals said `` support Israel , '' while just 39 % of the general public agreed .
Pew Research Center surveys of Hispanics and Asian Americans – the groups that comprise the bulk of the modern immigration wave – find that 61 % of adults in the second generation consider themselves to be a `` typical American . '' That 's roughly double the share of their immigrant forebears who say the same .
These differences are reflected as well in opinions about negative traits associated with Muslims . Roughly eight-in-ten Spanish ( 83 % ) and Germans ( 78 % ) say they associate Muslims with being fanatical . But that view is less prevalent in France ( 50 % ) , Great Britain ( 48 % ) and the U.S. ( 43 % ) . Moreover , while publics in largely Muslim countries generally view Westerners as violent and immoral , this view is not nearly as prevalent among Muslims in France , Spain and Germany . British Muslims however , are the most critical of the four minority publics studied – and they come closer to views of Muslims around the world in their opinions of Westerners .
It 's become more common for Americans to attend church a few times a year or less ( 54 % ) than monthly or more ( 45 % ) . This is just one measure by which the religious landscape of the country has changed . Since 2009 , the share of Americans who describe their religious identity as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' has grown from 17 % to 26 % , while the share who describe themselves as Christians has declined from 77 % to 65 % .
There has long been a sizable gender gap in leaned party identification . Men are divided ( 44 % Democratic , 43 % Republican ) . In 2008 , however , Democrats held a nine-point lead in leaned party identification among men ( 47 % to 38 % ) . Since 1990 , women have been consistently more likely than men to identify as Democrats or lean Democratic ( 52 % to 36 % in 2014 ) . Back to top
Around the world , public opinion is divided about whether government-sponsored torture can ever be justified as part of efforts to prevent terrorist attacks , according to a spring 2015 Pew Research Center survey of 38 nations . A median of 45 % across the countries polled said they did not believe use of torture by their governments against suspected terrorists to try to gain information about possible attacks in their country could be justified . A median of 40 % thought the use of torture could be justified in such cases . Looking at public opinion across major regions , the view that torture may be justified is most common in sub-Saharan Africa , where a median of 55 % hold this view ; it is least common in Latin America ( a median of 25 % ) . The U.S. public is among the most likely to consider torture justifiable : 58 % say this , while only 37 % disagree . There are only five nations in the survey where larger shares of the public believe torture against suspected terrorists can be justified : Uganda ( 78 % ) , Lebanon ( 72 % ) , Israel ( 62 % ) , Kenya ( 62 % ) and Nigeria ( 61 % ) .
Remittances sent to Nigeria have increased since 2009 , when the country received $ 18 billion from immigrants . Nevertheless , Nigeria accounted for a smaller share of remittances sent to sub-Saharan Africa in 2017 ( 54 % ) than in 2009 ( 68 % ) . The declining share is due to faster growth in remittances received by other sub-Saharan nations . Nigeria receives the largest share of remittances to the region despite an emigrant population of 1.3 million that is smaller than that of Somalia ( 2 million ) and South Sudan ( 1.8 million ) , which have the largest sub-Saharan emigrant populations , among others . One reason for this is that many of Nigeria 's emigrants live in countries with strong economies like the U.S. and the UK .
Despite their differing views of abortion and other religious issues , Americans generally see the high court as impartial toward religion . Seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 69 % ) say the court is neutral toward religion , while 18 % say the court is friendly toward religion and 11 % say it is unfriendly , according to a 2019 survey . Majorities of both Republicans ( 75 % ) and Democrats ( 65 % ) – as well as Christians ( 72 % ) and religious `` nones '' ( 65 % ) – say the court is neutral toward religion . The survey also found that 76 % of white Protestants who are not evangelical , 72 % of Catholics and 72 % of white evangelical Protestants see the court as neutral toward religion .
Despite the economic troubles facing the news industry , about seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) believe their local news media organizations are doing well financially . This belief persists even though only 14 % of U.S. adults say they personally have paid for local news within the past year , whether through subscriptions , donations or memberships . When asked why they do n't pay for local news , around half of non-payers ( 49 % ) point to the widespread availability of free content .
Moreover , notwithstanding the fact that only 26 % of the British public think being a member of the European Union has been good for their economy and just 43 % hold positive views of the European Union , the British , who will hold a referendum on continued EU membership in 2017 , remain evenly divided on leaving the EU : 46 % say stay and 46 % say go .
NATO members will hold a summit this week in Warsaw , Poland , at a time when the alliance is facing many challenges , including political uncertainty in Europe . But a spring 2016 Pew Research Center survey of nine EU nations , the U.S. and Canada finds positive views of the military alliance . A median of 57 % across the 11 NATO member countries surveyed voiced favorable views of the coalition , with only about a quarter ( median of 27 % ) expressing negative opinions .
Views on this question vary by respondents ' religious affiliation . Among white evangelical Protestants themselves , most feel that the Trump administration has had a positive impact on their affairs . About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) say that the administration has helped evangelicals , while only 7 % say it has hurt them . Jews ( 64 % ) are about as likely to say the Trump administration has helped evangelical Christians , while black Protestants ( 21 % ) are least likely to say this . The effects of Trump 's presidency on Muslims , on the other hand , are widely perceived to be negative . Americans are about seven times more likely to say that the Trump administration has hurt Muslims as they are to say it has helped them ( 48 % vs. 7 % ) . Views on whether the Trump administration has helped or hurt Jews are more divided . The share of U.S. adults who say the administration has helped Jews ( 29 % ) is roughly equal to the share who say it has hurt them ( 26 % ) , while about four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 42 % ) say the administration has not made much of a difference for Jews .
There was bad economic news for consumers last week , as both oil prices and home mortgage foreclosures reached record highs . Public interest in these stories was substantial during a week filled mostly with campaign news . More than four-in-ten Americans ( 43 % ) say they followed news about the rising price of oil very closely last week . Aside from the presidential campaign , oil prices were cited most often as the news story the public followed more closely than any other ( 17 % ) . Interest in this story was high despite the fact that national news organizations devoted only 1 % of the total news coverage to this story . Public interest in news about oil prices is comparable to November 2007 , when oil reached $ 100 per barrel for the first time . At that time , 44 % of Americans were following news about oil prices very closely ( 23 % most closely that week ) . Roughly three-in-ten Americans ( 28 % ) say they paid very close attention to reports that home mortgage foreclosures reached an all-time high during the last quarter of 2007 . The news media devoted 3 % of the newshole to reports about record home foreclosures . Public interest in news about the war in Iraq has remained steady for several months . Last week , 28 % of Americans followed news about Iraq very closely and 10 % said it was their most closely followed story .
Seven-in-ten U.S. Mormons identify with the Republican Party or say they lean toward the GOP , compared with 19 % who identify as or lean Democratic – a difference of 51 percentage points . That 's the biggest gap in favor of the GOP out of 30 religious groups we analyzed , which include Protestant denominations , other religious groups and three categories of people who are religiously unaffiliated . At the other end of the spectrum , an overwhelming majority of members of the AME Church ( 92 % ) identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party , while just 4 % say they favor the Republican Party ( an 88-point gap ) . Similarly , 87 % of members of the National Baptist Convention and 75 % of members of the Church of God in Christ ( another historically black denomination ) identify as Democrats .
Despite current negative attitudes toward the EU , 53 % in Turkey still say they would favor joining the union , while 37 % oppose such an action . Since ascension talks began , support for becoming an EU member has fallen among the Turkish public . Back in 2005 , as formal negotiations commenced , 68 % in Turkey said they would like to join and only 27 % opposed membership . In 2010 , a much lower 54 % favored ascension and 40 % opposed it . Since 2010 , however , views on this issue have been relatively steady .
As has been the case throughout Obama 's presidency , blacks are overwhelmingly positive of his job performance : Currently , 91 % approve of his handling of his job as president . Similarly , the president garners positive ratings among Hispanics . Today , 65 % of Hispanics approve of his job performance . However , whites continue to be more likely to disapprove ( 56 % ) than approve ( 38 % ) of the president 's performance , as they have been throughout most of his presidency .
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2012 found that relatively few U.S. Catholics ( 19 % ) said that getting a divorce is morally wrong . About a third ( 32 % ) said divorce is morally acceptable , while 45 % said it is not a moral issue . There were not significant differences on this question between Catholics who attend church weekly and those who attend less often .
The share of Americans saying they do not want their own representative in Congress reelected – 38 % – is at its highest point in two decades .
In the latest Pew Research Center survey , conducted Nov. 9 - 14 , more Americans say they disagree ( 27 % ) than agree ( 20 % ) with the Tea Party movement . A year ago , in the wake of the sweeping GOP gains in the midterm elections , the balance of opinion was just the opposite : 27 % agreed and 22 % disagreed with the Tea Party . At both points , more than half offered no opinion . Throughout the 2010 election cycle , agreement with the Tea Party far outweighed disagreement in the 60 House districts represented by members of the Congressional Tea Party Caucus . But as is the case nationwide , support has decreased significantly over the past year ; now about as many people living in Tea Party districts disagree ( 23 % ) as agree ( 25 % ) with the Tea Party .
Latinos disapprove by a margin of more than two-to-one of the way the Obama administration is handling deportations of unauthorized immigrants , according to a new national survey of Latino adults by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center . The survey also reveals that heading into the 2012 presidential campaign , Obama and the Democratic Party continue to enjoy strong support from Latino registered voters , despite a decline in Obama 's job approval rating .
From mid-November until Republican Scott Brown won the Jan. 19 special election in Massachusetts to replace Ted Kennedy in U.S. Senate , majorities had said they thought health care legislation would pass in the next year . Immediately after the election , the percentage saying that dropped from 57 % to 27 % . It had been inching up since mid-February , but took a big jump last week – from 43 % to 55 % – as House Democrats appeared to have a majority of votes in reach to pass the Senate bill and a package of fixes .
Those who have attended at least some college are more likely than those with a high school diploma or less to use social media , a trend that has been consistent since 2005 . In that year , 4 % of those with a high school diploma or less used social media , along with 8 % of those who attended some college and 12 % of college graduates . Currently adoption rates for social media stand at 76 % for those with college or graduate degrees , 70 % of those with some college education and 54 % for those who have a high school diploma or less . At the same time , the share of those with a high school diploma or less who use social media has grown more than tenfold over the past decade .
With most of the survey completed before airstrikes on Libya were launched by U.S. and allied forces , public interest in developments in Libya remained modest . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say they followed the conflict between rebels and government forces there very closely ; 5 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about unrest in the Middle East accounted for 17 % of coverage . Most of that ( 13 % ) focused on Libya . The public continued to closely track economy news . Nearly half ( 46 % ) say they very closely followed news about the rising price of gas and oil . Nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they very closely followed news about the economy . Few , though , say they followed either news about fuel prices or the economy in general more closely than any other news last week . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed oil and gas price news most closely and 5 % say they followed economic news most closely . News about gas prices and the economy more generally received little coverage .
Using social media to check up on former romantic partners is a fairly common practice among social media users . About half of social media users ( 53 % ) say they have used these sites to check up on someone with whom they were in a relationship or whom they used to date . Social media users ages 18 to 49 are far more likely than those ages 50 and older to report using social media to check up on an ex-romantic partner . Seven-in-ten 18- to 29-year-olds report that they have used these platforms to check up on someone they used to date or be in a relationship with . That share is lower – though still a majority – among users ages 30 to 49 and falls sharply among those ages and 50 and older .
Certain religious groups stick out as particular targets of restrictions and hostilities . For example , there has been a marked increase in the number of countries in which Jews were harassed . Jews , who make up just 0.2 % of the world 's total population , were harassed either by governments or social groups in 77 countries in 2013 , up from 71 in 2012 and 51 in 2007 . As in previous years , the world 's two largest religious groups faced harassment in the largest number of countries : Christians were harassed in 102 countries , and Muslims in 99 .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 69 % ) now say they approve of the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria , and 55 % say it is going very ( 13 % ) or fairly ( 42 % ) well . While clear majorities of the public have approved of the efforts to defeat ISIS since the campaign began , this is the first time in Pew Research Center surveys that a majority of the public views the military campaign in positive terms . As recently as last October , just 31 % of Americans said the campaign was going very or fairly well . The overall change in public assessments of the military 's approach to the Islamic State is largely attributable to a sharp shift in GOP views over the past year . Today , two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say the campaign is going well . In surveys conducted throughout the first years of the military campaign against ISIS ( and during Barack Obama 's administration ) , no more than three-in-ten Republicans said this .
English proficiency among Hispanics is linked to age and birthplace , the Pew Research analysis finds . For example , among foreign-born Hispanics , there are marked differences in English-speaking ability trends between adults and children . Among foreign-born adults , the share that speaks only English at home or speaks English `` very well '' has changed little in over 30 years—it was 29 % in 1980 and 32 % in 2013 .
Three-quarters of online parents use Facebook , as do 70 % of non-parents . Mothers are more likely to use Facebook than fathers , with 81 % of moms and 66 % of dads using the platform . 28 % of online parents use Pinterest , including 40 % of mothers and 15 % of fathers . 27 % of online parents use LinkedIn . Mothers and fathers are equally likely to use LinkedIn . 25 % of online parents are Instagram users . Mothers are more likely than fathers to use the platform , 30 % vs. 19 % . Younger parents ( those under 40 ) also are more likely to use Instagram than older parents , 33 % vs. 18 % . 23 % of online parents use Twitter . Moms and dads are equally as likely to use Twitter .
Slovaks are also more accepting of religious minorities than Czechs . Nearly half of Slovaks ( 47 % ) say they would be willing to accept Muslims as members of their family , and nearly three-in-four ( 73 % ) say the same about Jews . By comparison , just 12 % of Czechs say they would be willing to accept Muslims as members of their family , and around half ( 51 % ) say the same about Jews . On questions of nation and culture , Czechs are generally more likely than Slovaks to agree with nationalist statements . While similar shares in both nations say that having a family background from their country is `` very '' or `` somewhat '' important to being a true national ( i.e. , to being truly Czech ) , more Czechs than Slovaks say being born in their country is important ( 78 % vs. 56 % ) . And more Czechs than Slovaks agree with the statement `` Our people are not perfect , but our culture is superior to others '' ( 55 % vs. 44 % ) .
Republicans and Democrats are furthest apart in their opinions about the social safety net . There are partisan differences of 35 points or more in opinions about the government 's responsibility to care for the poor , whether the government should help more needy people if it means adding to the debt and whether the government should guarantee all citizens enough to eat and a place to sleep .
On balance , more adults say that other countries often take unfair advantage of the U.S. ( 51 % ) than say that other countries treat the U.S. about as fairly as we treat them ( 42 % ) . In the 1990s , Americans were much more likely to view other countries ' treatment of the U.S. as unfair than they are today .
Obama also suffered declines in approval numbers since last spring of 10 points among young white voters ; 18 points among Hispanics ; and 9 points among blacks . ( However , his approval among blacks still stood at 75 % ) .
In his new book , The Next America , Pew Research executive vice president of special projects Paul Taylor identifies two key trends that are already reshaping the United States and will continue doing so for decades to come . The first : far greater racial and ethnic diversity , driven largely by immigration . In 1960 , the U.S. population was 85 % white , 10 % black and 4 % Hispanic . By 2060 whites will be a minority ( 43 % ) , while 31 % of the population will be Hispanic , 13 % black , 8 % Asian and 6 % other races or ethnicities . As Taylor puts it , `` We were once a black and white country ; now we 're a rainbow . ''
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2018 , before any of the current contenders announced their candidacy , found that more than four-in-ten Americans ( 45 % ) said they personally hoped a woman would be elected president in their lifetime . About half of all women ( 51 % ) said they personally hoped this would happen , compared with 38 % of men .
Americans with higher levels of educational attainment are more likely to say the U.S. has a responsibility to provide medical aid to undocumented immigrants who are ill with the coronavirus . About three-quarters of adults with a postgraduate degree ( 79 % ) or a bachelor 's degree ( 73 % ) say this , compared with about two-thirds among those with some college experience and those with a high school diploma or less ( each 64 % ) .
Hispanic self-identification varies across immigrant generations . Among the foreign born from Latin America , nearly all self-identify as Hispanic . But by the fourth generation , only half of people with Hispanic heritage in the U.S. self-identify as Hispanic .
A separate Pew Research Center survey this spring finds that blacks also are about twice as likely as whites to think there is too little attention paid to racial issues in this country ( 58 % vs. 27 % ) . Smaller shares of black Americans think race and racial issues get too much attention in the country ( 22 % ) or that they get the right amount ( 17 % ) .
Finally , there are some similarities between what Americans think about these three potential , future enhancements and their attitudes toward the kinds of enhancements already widely available today . Many are skeptical about the need for cosmetic procedures and other current enhancements . For example , 61 % of Americans say people are too quick to undergo cosmetic procedures to change their appearance in ways that are not really important . Roughly a third ( 34 % ) say elective cosmetic surgery is `` taking technology too far . '' And , overall , 54 % of U.S. adults say elective cosmetic surgery leads to both benefits and downsides for society , while 26 % express the belief that there are more downsides than benefits , and just 16 % say society receives more benefits than downsides from cosmetic surgery .
Trump won white voters by a margin almost identical to that of Mitt Romney , who lost the popular vote to Barack Obama in 2012 . ( Trump appears likely to lose the popular vote , which would make him only the fifth elected president to do so and still win office . ) White non-Hispanic voters preferred Trump over Clinton by 21 percentage points ( 58 % to 37 % ) , according to the exit poll conducted by Edison Research for the National Election Pool . Romney won whites by 20 percentage points in 2012 ( 59 % to 39 % ) . However , although Trump fared little better among blacks and Hispanics than Romney did four years ago , Hillary Clinton did not run as strongly among these core Democratic groups as Obama did in 2012 . Clinton held an 80-point advantage among blacks ( 88 % to 8 % ) compared with Obama 's 87-point edge four years ago ( 93 % to 6 % ) . In 2008 , Obama had a 91-point advantage among blacks .
Americans have mixed feelings about using gene editing techniques to reduce babies ' lifetime risk of contracting serious diseases , with parents of children younger than 18 especially wary of the practice , according to a 2016 Pew Research Center survey . When asked to consider the idea of using gene editing to lessen healthy babies ' risk of disease , many more Americans said they were very or somewhat worried about the idea ( 68 % ) than were at least somewhat enthusiastic about it ( 49 % ) . And the public was closely divided over whether they would or would not want gene editing for their baby ( 48 % versus 50 % ) . Parents of minor children were less inclined to want gene editing for their child by a margin of 39 % to 59 % . Another Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2014 had similarly found Americans closely divided over whether changing genetic characteristics to reduce a baby 's risk of serious diseases would be appropriate ( 46 % ) or taking advances too far ( 50 % ) .
Almost half—47 % —of adults own an iPod or other mp3 player . However , among the devices examined in this report , mp3 players saw the widest range in ownership rates between generations . While 74 % of Millennials own an mp3 player , only 56 % of members of Gen X do—and adoption rates continue to drop for each of the older generations . Only 3 % of adults age 75 and older own this type of device .
Egyptian opinions about President Obama have grown steadily more negative over the course of his presidency . In a 2009 poll conducted a few months after he took office , Egyptians were divided over the new American president : 42 % expressed a great deal or some confidence that he would do the right thing in world affairs ; 47 % said they had little or no confidence .1 Today , 29 % have confidence in Obama , while 69 % lack confidence .
An estimated 2 million Hispanics of Salvadoran origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Salvadorans are the fourth-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 3.7 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013 . Since 1990 , the Salvadoran-origin population has more than tripled , growing from 563,000 to 2 million over that period . At the same time , the foreign-born population of Salvadoran origin living in the U.S. grew 156 % , up from 459,000 in 1990 to 1.2 million in 2013 . In comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 34.6 million , or 64.1 % , of the Hispanic population in 2013 .
On the other hand , fewer current broadband users know what their own internet access speed is . When asked what download speed they have for their own home internet service , 47 % were not able to provide an answer . The remaining users offered a range of estimates , from 10 megabits per second or less ( which is how 5 % of current subscribers describe their connection speed ) to 100 Mbps or more ( 12 % ) .
To be sure , at least half of U.S. Catholics think Francis is doing a `` good '' or `` excellent '' job on the sex abuse issue and the environment . Over half ( 55 % ) of Catholics rated Francis positively on addressing sex abuse ( 19 % `` excellent , '' 36 % `` good '' ) , and 53 % gave him high marks on environmental issues ( 18 % `` excellent , '' 35 % `` good '' ) , according to our survey conducted in May and early June . But out of nine areas where respondents were asked to rate the pope , these were the two in which Francis drew the least positive ratings .
The year 1980 in China is well known as the beginning of the country 's one-child policy . But what may be overlooked is how that year also marked a turning point in China 's generational experiences : Roughly half ( 47 % ) of China 's current population were born under the policy ( ages 0 to 34 today ) , and they lived through a very different China than the half who were born before .
The second element of the rural broadband gap is the relatively low level of broadband adoption among rural residents who do use the internet . Just over half ( 55 % ) of rural internet users have a broadband connection at home ; among urban/suburban adults , broadband adoption among internet users is 73 % . Suburban and urban residents are also more likely to have access to a broadband connection at their place of employment ; just over two thirds of rural adults ( 38 % ) have access to a broadband connection either at home or at work , versus more than 55 % for urban and suburban residents .
Support for paid family and medical leave is widespread , but it is greater under some circumstances than others . About eight-in-ten Americans ( 82 % ) support paid leave for mothers following the birth or adoption of a child , while 69 % support paid paternity leave for fathers . And while 85 % support paid leave for workers dealing with their own serious health condition , fewer ( 67 % ) support paid leave for those caring for a family member who is seriously ill. More Americans say that employers , rather than the federal or state government , should be responsible for providing pay for workers who take leave . For example , roughly six-in-ten adults say employers should provide pay for workers who need to deal with their own serious health condition ( 62 % ) and for mothers following birth or adoption ( 61 % ) .
Across several measures , black-white gaps in social and economic well-being persist . Blacks lag behind whites in homeownership , household wealth and median income , among other indicators . And these differences remain even when controlling for levels of education .
About two-thirds of Black ( 65 % ) and Hispanic voters ( 65 % ) said it is at least somewhat important to them to hear from the Trump and Biden campaigns . Among white voters , 55 % said this . Differences also emerge by age . About four-in-ten voters ages 65 and older ( 39 % ) said it is very important to them to hear from the presidential campaigns , compared with 30 % of those 50 to 64 , 20 % of those 30 to 49 and just 15 % of those ages 18 to 29 . Slightly more 18- to 29-year-old voters ( 37 % ) said it is somewhat important to them , compared with roughly three-in-ten saying the same in the other age groups .
While Hungarians and other Europeans may not agree on refugees and minorities , there is wide consensus on the importance of democratic values . Large majorities in Hungary say it is very important to live in a country where each democratic principle we asked about is adhered to . In 2015 , a median across six EU nations showed similarly positive views . Hungarians are even more supportive of certain democratic principles than other Europeans . In 2015 , a median of 61 % across six EU nations said that living in a country where the media can report the news without state censorship was very important . In our 2016 survey , 70 % of Hungarians said the same . This high rating comes on the heels of years of criticism of the Orbán government 's handling of press freedom and low ratings for Orbán 's handling of the media ( only 30 % approve ) .
On social media , too , most people are gravitating toward social activities over political , religious or commercial ones . Among the minority of sub-Saharan Africans who use social media ( ranging from 43 % in South Africa to 20 % in Tanzania ) , more say they share their views on entertainment-related topics like music , movies and sports than say they post about politics , religion or products they enjoy .
But the educational `` gap '' in fertility has somewhat narrowed in the past two decades , driven by declining childlessness and a rise in larger families among highly educated moms . The share of mothers ages 40 to 44 with at least a master 's degree and three or more children increased from two decades ago , as the share with just one child declined . According to previous research by the Center , highly educated women are the only group with a declining share of one-child families and a rise in families of three or more .
As part of a larger survey of Hispanic immigrants fielded in late 2015 , Pew Research Center asked Mexican green-card holders why they had not yet become naturalized U.S. citizens . The most frequent reasons centered on inadequate English skills , lack of time or initiative , and the cost of the U.S. citizenship application . These appear to be significant barriers , as nearly all lawful immigrants from Mexico said they would like to become U.S. citizens someday . In the United States , the citizenship , or naturalization , rate among all lawful immigrants steadily increased from 1995 to 2005 , rising from 47 % to 62 % . Until about 2005 , the naturalization rate among lawful immigrants from Mexico also increased steadily , but did so more rapidly ( from 20 % in 1995 to 38 % in 2005 ) , narrowing the gap between Mexicans and other immigrants . However , between 2005 and 2010 , the naturalization rate of Mexican green-card holders leveled off , even as the rate for lawful permanent residents from other parts of the globe continued to rise . Only in the period from 2011 to 2015 did the rate of naturalization among eligible Mexican immigrants significantly increase again at a pace higher than that of other lawful U.S. immigrants – going from 38 % to 42 % among Mexicans , compared with a 2-percentage-point increase , from 72 % to 74 % among non-Mexican immigrants .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 72 % ) say they are bothered a lot ( 49 % ) or some ( 24 % ) when they are around people in public places who are not wearing masks . By contrast , just 28 % say they are bothered at least some by stores and businesses that require customers to wear a mask . Far more ( 72 % ) say such a requirement does not bother them much or at all .
Public views of the impact of churches and religious organizations on the country have changed little in recent years . Currently , 59 % say churches have a positive effect on the country , while 26 % say they have a negative effect .
Roughly six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 62 % ) say climate change is currently affecting their local community either a great deal or some , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . This finding is consistent with a 2018 Center survey , in which 59 % of Americans said global climate change was affecting their local community at least some .
Even as Americans express concern about government access to their data , they feel as though government could do more to regulate what advertisers do with their personal information ; 64 % believe the government should do more to regulate advertisers , compared with 34 % who think the government should not get more involved .
On the other hand , there is broad awareness of details related to how the Zika virus is spread ( 86 % know it is primarily spread by mosquitoes ) . In addition , 72 % know that tap water in Flint , Michigan , is unsafe because it contains too much lead . While 62 % correctly identify Paul Ryan as speaker of the House , fewer ( 45 % ) know that Neil Gorsuch is a Supreme Court justice . ( Full question wording available here . ) About half ( 47 % ) identify Robert Mueller as the person leading the Justice Department 's investigation into Russian involvement in the 2016 election , while 44 % know that the current secretary of state is Rex Tillerson .
By contrast , whites are underrepresented ; whites were 25 % of the victims of gun homicide in 2010 , but 65 % of the population . For Hispanics , the 17 % share of gun homicide victims was about equal to their 16 % proportion of the total population .
Most Americans continue to hear a mix of good and bad news about the economy ( 62 % ) , but the share hearing mostly bad news has dipped from 35 % in September to 28 % this month . The percentage hearing mostly good news is essentially unchanged ( 8 % ) .
China 's economy generates much less concern in the region than does its military . Still , half of Indians ( 50 % ) consider China 's growing economy a bad thing for their country , up significantly from 36 % in 2005 . Roughly four-in-ten Russians ( 39 % ) have a negative view of China 's economic strength , a figure basically unchanged from last year . Just over a quarter of Japanese ( 28 % ) take a negative view – a perhaps surprisingly low percentage , given the overall negativity of Japanese views toward China . Unsurprisingly , the Chinese themselves see their economic growth in a very positive light .
Six-in-ten U.S. adults say they have a `` very '' or `` mostly '' favorable view of Pope Francis , up from roughly half who said this in September of 2018 , when the question was last asked . At that time , a Pennsylvania grand jury had just published a report revealing decades of child sexual abuse by Catholic priests , and former cardinal Theodore McCarrick had recently resigned because of separate sex abuse allegations . Overall , public opinion of Pope Francis is now roughly at the same level as when he assumed the papacy in 2013 , but still below higher points in 2015 and 2017 , when 70 % of U.S. adults said they had a `` very '' or `` mostly '' favorable view of the pontiff .
Many Europeans are uncomfortable with the growing diversity of society . When asked whether having an increasing number of people of many different races , ethnic groups and nationalities makes their country a better or worse place to live , relatively few said it makes their country better . And in Greece , Italy , Hungary and Poland , at least four-in-ten said increasing diversity harms their country .
This shift in perceptions has been especially strong among some of America 's top allies in Europe . In 2008 , across France , Germany , Poland , Spain and the UK , a median of 44 % considered the U.S. the world 's top economy , while just 29 % said it was China . By 2012 , the percentage naming the U.S. had declined to 28 % , while the share saying China had nearly doubled to 57 % . Today , China is still seen as the clear economic leader in these nations , although over the past two years the numbers for the U.S. have increased slightly , while the percentage naming China as the leading economic power has declined somewhat .
As the last of this year 's crop of U.S. college graduates march across the stage to receive their diplomas , more of them than ever are likely to be from overseas . In fact , a new Pew Research Center analysis of degrees granted by American colleges and universities shows that foreign students earn more than half of the advanced degrees in many science , technology , engineering and mathematics ( STEM ) fields . Foreign students earned just 11.6 % of all doctorates conferred by U.S. colleges and universities in the 2012 - 2013 academic year , but they comprise 56.9 % of all doctoral degrees in engineering ; 52.5 % of all doctorates in computer and information sciences ; and half of all doctorates in mathematics and statistics , according to data from the National Center for Education Statistics . At the baccalaureate level , foreign students still are overrepresented in STEM degrees , though the numbers are smaller . In 2012 - 2013 , foreign students received just 3.5 % of bachelor 's degrees from U.S. colleges and universities , but they earned 10.2 % of all degrees in mathematics and statistics , 7.9 % of all engineering degrees , and 6.7 % of all bachelor 's degrees in architecture and related services .
Google search interest in guns is correlated with the population-adjusted number of FBI background checks at the state level , too . In 2017 , states with more Google search activity for the specific gun models we tested also had a higher per-capita number of FBI background checks . ( This finding reflects Google searches and background checks conducted over the course of the full year . )
On average , people in emerging and developing economies have low political efficacy . Majorities or pluralities in 31 of the 33 countries surveyed say that most government officials do not care what people like them think . This view is especially common in Latin America , where a median of 77 % say their political opinions matter little to politicians , compared with just 13 % who say government officials do care and 5 % who volunteer that neither or both are true . The belief that government officials ignore average citizens is particularly strong among Brazilians , 90 % of whom say their government does not care . About two-thirds in the Middle East ( 67 % ) and Africa ( 65 % ) express doubts that political leaders pay attention to their opinions . In fact , South Africa is the only country surveyed in these two regions where fewer than half ( 43 % ) hold this view . Across these regions , roughly two-in-ten believe politicians care ( 19 % in the Middle East , 20 % in Africa ) . Political efficacy in Eastern Europe is similarly low . More than seven-in-ten in the three nations surveyed believe that government officials care little about the views of people like them . Ukrainians have the lowest political efficacy with 83 % saying that officials care little about their opinions . Political efficacy is highest in Asia , but a median of 55 % across the region still say that government officials do not care about what they think . Roughly a quarter ( 23 % ) believes politicians pay attention to their opinions , while 10 % say neither . Filipinos far and away have the highest political efficacy of those surveyed . The Philippines is the only country in which at least half ( 52 % ) say government officials care about what people like them think . Still , more than a third ( 36 % ) believe politicians care little about their concerns , while 8 % agree with neither or both .
The most important change in telephone surveys in the past decade has been the adoption of dual frame survey designs that include cellphone numbers . Many survey organizations now conduct at least as many interviews by cellphone as by landline in national surveys . As of 2015 , the typical Pew Research Center poll interviews 65 % of its respondents on cellphones and 35 % on landlines . The cellphone share has grown over time as the share of the population using only a cellphone has risen .
In the wake of Donald Trump 's 2016 election victory , an overwhelming majority of those who said they had voted for him had `` warm '' feelings for him . By this spring , more than a year into Trump 's presidency , the feelings of these same Trump voters had changed very little . In March , 82 % of those who reported voting for Trump – and whom researchers were able to verify through voting records as having voted in 2016 – said they felt `` warmly '' toward Trump , with 62 % saying they had `` very warm '' feelings toward him . Their feelings were expressed on a 0 - 100 `` feeling thermometer . '' A rating of 51 or higher is `` warm , '' with 76 or higher indicating `` very warm '' feelings .
Since Trump became president , his job approval ratings have been more polarized than past presidents during their first year in office . That remains the case today , but his job ratings are lower today among Republicans than they were in February . His ratings are virtually unchanged among Democrats . Currently , 76 % of Republicans and Republican leaners approve of Trump 's job performance , compared with 84 % who did so in February . Trump 's job approval among Democrats and Democratic leaners is 7 % , about the same as in February ( 8 % ) .
`` Mexican '' is the identity term used most often . When asked in a 2013 Pew Research Center survey what term they use to describe themselves most often , a majority of Mexican adults ( 57 % ) say they most often use the term `` Mexican . '' About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they describe themselves most often as `` American . '' The same share most often use the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' to describe their identity . By comparison , 54 % of all U.S. Hispanics say they prefer their ancestor 's Hispanic origin term to describe their identity , 23 % say they describe themselves most often as `` American '' and two-in-ten use the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' to describe their identity . Preference for Hispanic or Latino . In regard to the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino , '' half of Mexican adults have no preference for either term . Among those who have a preference , more prefer the term `` Hispanic '' ( 35 % of all Mexicans ) , while 13 % prefer the term `` Latino . '' By comparison , half of all Hispanic adults have no preference for either term , and among those who do have a preference Hispanic is favored over Latino 2-to-1 . Typical American or not . When asked in the 2013 Pew Research survey whether they thought of themselves as a typical American or very different from a typical American , the responses are split . Some 48 % of Mexican adults see themselves as a `` typical American , '' while 46 % think of themselves as `` very different from a typical American . '' Hispanic adults overall share similar views as Mexicans , and on balance Hispanic adults are more likely to see themselves as a typical American ( 49 % ) than very different from a typical American ( 44 % ) .
Obama fares well when compared with past presidents . Expectations for Obama 's historical record are far more positive than those of George W. Bush at the end of his term ( when 57 % predicted that he would be remembered as a below average or poor president ) , and are roughly on par with views of Bill Clinton when he left office . Obama is set to leave the White House with a job approval rating only slightly below Reagan 's and Clinton 's . Currently , 58 % approve of his job performance , while 37 % disapprove . Obama 's job ratings have steadily improved over the last several months , and are the highest they have been since a short-lived bump in approval immediately following his re-election .
You are correct that the government spends more on entitlements ( Social Security plus Medicare plus Medicaid plus other mandatory programs ) than national defense , but remember , the question asked you to choose which among the four specific programs received the most money . Taken individually , none of the government 's mandatory-spending programs receives more money than national defense . Social Security is close , but that was not one of the answer options . The chart above , however , does not contain the most recent federal budget data released by the government . Pasted below is a similar chart from the most recent OMB report — Budget of the U.S. Government : Fiscal Year 2011 ( PDF ) . You can find the chart in the section titled `` Summary Tables , '' and a host of other information about government spending in the full report . While this chart , unfortunately , does not contain the percentages of government spending by category , you can clearly see that the outlays for national defense ( labeled `` security discretionary '' ) are again clearly larger than the outlays for Medicare , net interest and all non-security discretionary spending ( which includes a small slice for education ) .
American and Russian views of one another have become less harsh since turning intensely negative in the wake of Russia 's annexation of Crimea and the imposition of Western sanctions on Russia . Today , roughly four-in-ten Russians ( 41 % ) feel favorably toward the United States , compared with just 15 % in 2015 . Views in the U.S. toward Russia have eased less : 22 % of Americans felt favorably toward Russia in 2015 , compared with 29 % today .
More than half of all tweets sent by members of the U.S. Congress between March 11 and 21 were related to the coronavirus outbreak , reflecting a dramatic increase since late January , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis . The surge in Twitter activity is one reflection of the extent to which COVID-19 has dominated discussion among lawmakers on Capitol Hill in recent weeks .
Poverty levels naturally reflect the income patterns just shown in the previous charts . Immigrant adults are more likely than natives to live in families with incomes below poverty level . Unauthorized migrants are more than twice as likely to be living in poverty than native adults .
Those who have had the most exposure to information about the government surveillance programs also have some of the strongest views about data retention limits for certain kinds of organizations . These differences are particularly notable when considering social media sites . Among those who have heard `` a lot '' about the government collecting communications data as part of anti-terrorism efforts , 55 % say that the social media sites they use should not save any information regarding their activity , compared with 35 % of those who have heard `` a little '' about the government monitoring programs .
Another high-profile aspect of America 's recent national security strategy is also widely unpopular : drones . In 39 of 44 countries surveyed , majorities or pluralities oppose U.S. drone strikes targeting extremists in countries such as Pakistan , Yemen and Somalia . Moreover , opposition to drone attacks has increased in many nations since last year . Israel , Kenya and the U.S. are the only nations polled where at least half of the public supports drone strikes .
Majorities of Americans say news organizations focused too much last week on both the royal wedding in England and the release of the long-form version of Barack Obama 's birth certificate . Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) say the press gave too much coverage to the April 29 wedding in London of Prince William and Kate Middleton , while 54 % say the media gave too much coverage to the release of Obama 's long-form birth certificate , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted April 28-May 1 among 1,006 adults . ( This survey was conducted before U.S. forces killed Osama bin Laden ; a survey released earlier today found that while most Americans heard about bin Laden 's death from television , many young people first learned about the news from social networking . ) On the other hand , roughly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say news organizations provided too little coverage of news about rising gas and oil prices , while 44 % say the media got the amount of coverage about right . Just 13 % say the press gave too much coverage to this critical pocketbook concern .
Blacks , Hispanics , Asians and other racial or ethnic minorities accounted for 26.7 % of voters in 2016 , a share unchanged from 2012 . Leading up to the election , the overall eligible voting population was the most racially and ethnically diverse ever . However , whites made up 73.3 % of voters in 2016 , a share unchanged from 2012 , when they accounted for 73.7 % . Meanwhile , blacks made up 11.9 % of voters in 2016 , down from 12.9 % in 2012 – the first time since 2004 that blacks have declined as a share of voters . Hispanics have accounted for a growing share of the electorate for decades , and this trend continued in 2016 , when they made up 9.2 % of voters , up from 8.4 % in 2012 . Asians made up 3.6 % of all voters in 2016 , up from 2.8 % in 2012
Fueled by these demographic trends , the share of white students enrolled in majority-minority schools has nearly doubled over the past two decades , from 8.4 % in 1990 to 15.9 % in 2010 . The share of black , Hispanic and Asian students enrolled in majority-minority schools also increased during this time—for Hispanics , from 73 % to 79 % , for example .
Broadly speaking , Obama has an advantage over Republicans when it comes to environmental matters . The environment is the only one of nine issues tested in a post-election poll where Obama enjoys a clear edge , with Americans favoring his approach to the subject over that of the Republicans by a 35 % to 20 % margin . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) see no difference between the two .
President Bush 's overall job approval rating has risen only slightly in recent days , even as increasing numbers believe that the war in Iraq has been won . The president 's current rating is 72 % , statistically unchanged from 74 % immediately after the fall of Baghdad , but notably higher than his prewar approval rating of 55 % . But his approval mark has not yet come close to matching President George H.W . Bush 's peak approval score of 89 % after the successful conclusion of the Persian Gulf War in 1991 .
Reflecting the slow decline in the proportion of people getting most of their national and international news from television , the numbers specifically citing cable news outlets or broadcast networks as their main news source has fallen . When asked where on television they get most of their news , 36 % name a cable network such as CNN , the Fox News Channel or MSNBC ; 22 % name ABC News , CBS News or NBC News ; and 16 % say they get most of their national and international news from local news programming . Compared with five years ago , the share citing a cable network as their main source is down seven points ( from 43 % to 36 % ) , and the share citing a broadcast network is down eight points ( from 30 % to 22 % ) . The local news figure has remained relatively constant over this period .
Yet there are much wider differences in views of banning high-capacity ammunition magazines that hold more than 10 rounds and assault-style weapons . Nearly nine-in-ten Democrats favor each of these proposals , compared with about half of Republicans . Still , support for banning high-capacity magazines has increased among members of both parties since 2017 ( 8 points among Democrats , 7 points among Republicans ) . While more Democrats favor a ban on assault weapons now than did so two years ago , slightly fewer Republicans support such a ban than in 2017 .
The Chinese and Japanese have held fairly strong and often negative stereotypes of each other for some time . And in some instances these views have worsened over the past decade . More than six-in-ten Japanese ( 64 % ) thought the Chinese were hardworking in 2006 , but now only around four-in-ten ( 42 % ) view them in that way . Again , it is older Japanese who are more critical ( although older Japanese are more likely to voice no opinion ) : Only 35 % of Japanese ages 50 and older associate the attribute hardworking with the Chinese , while 60 % of younger Japanese see the Chinese in that light .
For their part , most Americans say they are interested in news about other major world powers . Nearly seven-in-ten Americans surveyed in the fall of 2017 say they are interested in what happens in Great Britain ( 69 % ) , China ( 69 % ) and Russia ( 68 % ) . And roughly two-thirds say the same about Germany and Japan ( 66 % each ) . Mutual interest between publics in the U.S. and other major powers diverges in several cases . For example , while 68 % of Americans say they are interested in news about Russia , only 48 % of Russians say they closely follow news about the U.S. And while 61 % of Americans are interested in news about France , just 50 % of French people say they closely follow news about the U.S .
Young women , those 18 - 24 , experience certain severe types of harassment at disproportionately high levels : 26 % of these young women have been stalked online , and 25 % were the target of online sexual harassment . In addition , they do not escape the heightened rates of physical threats and sustained harassment common to their male peers and young people in general .
Most types of political engagement are equally commonplace among Americans of different generations . There are only modest age-related differences when it comes to getting involved in political groups or in-person activities , speaking out publicly in online spaces , or speaking out publicly in offline spaces . Social networking sites ( SNS ) stand in contrast to these other venues . Political engagement on social networking sites is especially commonplace among the youngest Americans , as two-thirds ( 67 % ) of all 18 - 24 year olds ( and nearly three quarters of those young adults who use social networking sites ) engaged in some sort of social network-related political activity in the 12 months preceding our survey . Older adults tend to be fairly politically active on social networking sites to the extent that they use them , but are relatively unlikely to use these sites in the first place . So , although nearly six in ten SNS-using seniors are politically active on these sites , that works out to just 13 % of all Americans in the 65+ age group .
Roughly eight-in-ten whites ( 82 % ) report owning a desktop or laptop computer , compared with 58 % of blacks and 57 % of Hispanics . There are also substantial racial and ethnic differences in broadband adoption , with whites being more likely than either blacks or Hispanics to report having a broadband connection at home . ( There were not enough Asian respondents in the sample to be broken out into a separate analysis . )
At the same time , six-in-ten Americans say in the new survey that scientists should take an active role in public policy debates , while 39 % of Americans say scientists should focus on establishing scientific facts and stay out of science-related policy debates . Opinion on this issue is unchanged from last year .
Voter registration rates have declined since 2008 , especially among young people . In interviews conducted over the course of 2012 so far , 72 % of adults 18 and older say they are absolutely certain they are registered to vote . This is lower than in 2008 , when 79 % were registered to vote and in 2004 ( 76 % registered to vote ) . In polls conducted from January to September , just half of those under 30 are certain they are registered to vote – 11 points lower than in 2008 – and the lowest number in the past 16 years of Pew Research Center polling . There also has been a nine-point decline in voter registration among those 30-to-49 . Voter registration has slipped four points among those 50-to-64 but is virtually unchanged among those 65 and older .
Asked how they would feel if they saw a drone flying close to where they live , relatively large shares of Americans say they would be curious ( 58 % ) or interested ( 45 % ) . At the same time , around one-in-four ( 26 % ) say they would be nervous , and around one-in-ten say this would make them feel angry ( 12 % ) or scared ( 11 % ) .
People 's views about contact tracing and related issues like privacy and data security could have a critical impact on the success of contact tracing programs and the trajectory of the pandemic . Public health modeling of the spread of COVID-19 has shown that successful contact tracing can depress the number of infections dramatically if those who are infected are quarantined and contacts and places visited are identified . As public health officials and organizations work to combat misinformation about contact tracing , they also must try to communicate effectively with the public about its goals and purpose . The July survey found that while the majority of Americans said they had heard about this process as of the survey 's fielding , another share , though a minority , said they had not heard much or anything . Overall , 70 % of Americans had seen or heard at least some about contact tracing as of mid-July , with 29 % having heard a great deal about the process . At the same time , 29 % reported hearing nothing at all or not too much about this process . Majorities across groups had at least some awareness of contact tracing at the time , but not all Americans had seen or heard equal amounts about the process . About four-in-ten Black adults ( 39 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 43 % ) said they had not heard much or anything at all about contact tracing at the time , while roughly three-in-ten Asian American adults ( 31 % ) and about a quarter of White adults ( 24 % ) said the same . Younger Americans and women were also more likely to have less awareness about contact tracing . Some 40 % of 18- to 29-year-olds said they had heard not too much or nothing at all as of the survey 's fielding , compared with 29 % of 30- to 49-year-olds , 26 % of 50- to 64-year-olds and 24 % of those 65 and older . Roughly three-in-ten men ( 27 % ) and women ( 31 % ) reported having not seen or heard much , if anything , about this process .
Those voters who hold ideologically mixed viewpoints are less likely than the average to see their vote in partisan terms ( 26 % say the parties are not a factor ) . A 46 % plurality say that voting for their party is the driving factor in their vote , while 27 % say they are voting against the other party .
About half ( 49 % ) of Israelis would like the Obama administration to be more involved , while 15 % would like it to play a smaller role and 29 % would like it to play the same role it has been playing in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . Opinions on this do not vary considerably between Israeli Arabs and Jews .
In contrast , views of the Republican Party remain at historic lows . Currently , 53 % of Americans express unfavorable views of the Republican Party while only 39 % say they have a favorable opinion of the party . These ratings are unchanged from July 2007 , and have changed little since April 2006 .
The weakness in the financial recovery for Hispanics is mirrored by the experience of blacks . The median personal income of black workers is virtually unchanged since the start of the Great Recession , inching up to $ 33,600 in 2017 from $ 33,200 in 2007 . On the other hand , the financial recovery for whites and Asians has been stronger . The median income of white workers increased from $ 42,700 in 2007 to $ 45,500 in 2017 ( up 7 % ) and the median income of Asian workers increased from $ 44,800 to $ 50,000 ( up 12 % ) .
Though the president 's favorability ratings have improved over the last year , Michelle Obama remains more popular than her husband : Nearly three-quarters of the public ( 72 % ) also have a very ( 46 % ) or mostly ( 25 % ) favorable opinion of the first lady , compared with 22 % who view her unfavorably . Views of Michelle Obama have changed only modestly over the course of eight years , though the share who see her favorably is up 11 points from last year .
What do Americans think of the rich ? Views are mixed : Americans view the well-to-do as more intelligent and more hardworking but also greedier , our survey this summer found . About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) said the rich were more likely than the average person to be intelligent ( with 50 % saying there was no difference or expressing no opinion ) and 42 % said they were more likely to be hardworking compared with 24 % who said less likely and 34 % seeing no difference or offering no opinion . More than half ( 55 % ) saw the rich as more likely to be greedy compared with 9 % who said less likely , and 36 % who took neither side .
Americans are becoming more accepting in their views of LGBT people and homosexuality in general , and the number of people identifying as LGBT has grown in recent years . For example , 63 % of Americans said in 2016 that homosexuality should be accepted by society , compared with 51 % in 2006 . LGBT adults recognize the change in attitudes : About nine-in-ten ( 92 % ) said in a 2013 Pew Research Center survey of adults identifying as LGBT that society had become more accepting of them in the previous decade . Perhaps as a result of this growing acceptance , the number of people who identify as LGBT in surveys is also rising . About 10 million people , or 4.1 % of the U.S. adult population , identified as LGBT in 2016 , according to the latest estimates from Gallup . This represents a modest but significant increase from 8.3 million people ( 3.5 % of adults ) who said they were LGBT in 2012 .
While 48 % say the United States made the right decision to use military force in Iraq , nearly as many ( 46 % ) disagree . And the issue continues to be politically divisive : 72 % of Republicans support the decision to use force compared with just 44 % of independents and 37 % of Democrats .
Between Feb. 24 , 2016 – when Facebook first gave its users the option of clicking on the `` angry '' reaction , as well as the emotional reactions `` love , '' `` sad , '' `` haha '' and `` wow '' – and Election Day , the congressional Facebook audience used the `` angry '' button in response to lawmakers ' posts a total of 3.6 million times . But during the same amount of time following the election , that number increased more than threefold , to nearly 14 million . The trend toward using the `` angry '' reaction continued during the last three months of 2017 . Use of the `` love '' reaction also increased after Election Day , but at a slower rate . Users reacted to congressional posts with the `` love '' button 7 million times in the period before the election , a figure that rose to about 12 million in the period afterward . While `` love '' was the most popular new reaction before the election , `` angry '' became the most popular afterward .
Two-thirds of Democrats ( 66 % ) now say that warming is mainly because of human activity , up nine points from earlier this year . Fewer independents ( 43 % ) and Republicans ( 24 % ) than Democrats say that human activity is the primary cause of global warming .
But Republicans are less supportive of the president on some other issues , in particular the environment , energy policy and immigration . Just 38 % of moderate and liberal Republicans approve of the job Bush is doing on energy policy ­ his lowest rating from this segment of the party . For conservative Republicans , there are questions about Bush 's immigration policy ­ just 51 % of conservative Republicans approve of how the president is handling immigration .
The NSA 's data surveillance programs undoubtedly played a large role in Brazil 's sour opinions of the U.S . When asked whether they found it suitable for the American government to monitor the communications of Brazil 's leaders , more than eight-in-ten Brazilians ( 83 % ) said this practice was unacceptable . Brazilians also voiced strong opposition to monitoring American citizens ( 84 % unacceptable ) and Brazilian citizens ( 94 % ) .
Atheists are among the most knowledgeable about religion . Self-described atheists correctly answer 17.9 questions right , on average , and agnostics get 17.0 questions right . Jews and evangelical Protestants also are among the top performers , getting an average of 18.7 and 15.5 questions right , respectively . Evangelical Protestants get the most questions right about Christianity and the Bible . The survey asked 14 questions about the Bible and Christianity , including questions about biblical figures such as Moses , aspects of Christianity in general and attributes of Protestantism , Catholicism and Mormonism in particular . Evangelical Protestants give the highest number of right answers , answering 9.3 out of 14 on average . Atheists and Mormons also do well , getting an average of 8.6 and 8.5 questions right .
The war in Iraq continued to attract broad public attention , despite drawing far less news coverage than the Imus flap . Overall , 34 % of Americans say they followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely , and 26 % cited the war as the story they followed most closely from April 12 - 16 . News about Imus 's remarks regarding the Rutgers women 's basketball team was the second most closely followed story : 24 % say they followed this story very closely , and 20 % named it as the story they tracked most closely . The public paid less attention to the week 's other major stories . Fewer than one-in-ten cited the issue of immigration ( 8 % ) , the Iraq policy debate ( 7 % ) , the 2008 presidential campaign ( 6 % ) , or the Duke lacrosse case ( 5 % ) as the story they followed most closely last week .
Most U.S. adults now say it is not necessary to believe in God to be moral and have good values ( 56 % ) , up from about half ( 49 % ) who expressed this view in 2011 . This increase reflects the continued growth in the share of the population that has no religious affiliation , but it also is the result of changing attitudes among those who do identify with a religion , including white evangelical Protestants .
Merkel gets positive reviews from Americans , especially Democrats . Since Pew Research Center first asked about Angela Merkel in the U.S. in 2006 , three main findings have stood out . First , positive ratings for Merkel have consistently outweighed negative ones , and this was true again in 2017 , when 56 % of U.S. adults expressed confidence in her . Second , Merkel has become better known . In 2017 , only 14 % offered no opinion about the German leader , down from 31 % as recently as 2012 . Third , a partisan divide has emerged over Merkel . In 2012 , there was virtually no difference in the views of Democrats and Republicans , but in 2017 , 64 % of Democrats had confidence in the chancellor , compared with 50 % of Republicans .
Among NATO member countries , positive views of the organization range from 82 % in Poland to 21 % in Turkey . Majorities of people in Poland , Lithuania , Netherlands , the United Kingdom , Italy and Germany rate NATO positively in Europe . Opinions are also relatively positive in the Czech Republic , Slovakia , France , Spain , Hungary and Bulgaria .
Among this group , Democrats and Democratic-leaning Millennials are far more likely than Republican and Republican-leaning Millennials to learn about the election via social media , the new analysis finds . Nearly three-quarters ( 74 % ) of Millennial Democrats who say they are very likely to participate in their state 's primary or caucus learned about the 2016 presidential election through a social networking site . This is starkly higher than the 50 % of Millennial Republicans who say they are very likely to participate . These party differences were not found in other generations .
The latest national poll by the Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 30-Nov. 6 among 2,003 adults , finds that Obama 's second-term job ratings have followed a similar downward trajectory as those of his predecessor , George W. Bush . A year after his reelection , 36 % approved of Bush 's job performance , down from 48 % in December 2004 . In contrast , the two prior presidents who won reelection – Bill Clinton and Ronald Reagan – enjoyed positive ratings over the course of the next year . At comparable points in their fifth year in office , 58 % approved of Clinton 's job performance while Reagan 's job rating stood at 62 % .
More than half of immigrants from South and East Asian countries ( 52.1 % ) had a bachelor 's degree or more in 2016 , which is in part explained by Asian countries being the largest source of foreign college graduates who stay to work in the United States . Asian immigrants also make up a majority of H-1B visa holders and foreign students . Latin American immigrants , by contrast , tend to have lower levels of education . The vast majority of Mexican immigrants ( 81.2 % ) and Central American immigrants ( 74.6 % ) had a high school degree or less , the lowest educational attainment level of any origin region .
The upcoming midterm elections might be underwhelming for many Americans , but it could shape up to be one of the most profitable for local TV stations – one of the sources Americans turn to most for news about politics . Local TV has been receiving the largest portion of political media spending for at least a decade , but the share it consumes and the total dollars reaped continue to grow . Through mid-October , local TV stations have captured 95 % of the television political ad spending , which includes spot , national cable , national network broadcast ( local cable political ad spending is not part of this analysis ) . In 2012 , during the last presidential elections , local TV stations captured 92 % of total political TV ad spending , based on the same analysis . From January to mid-October 2014 , total political ad spending for local TV was about $ 1.3 billion , according to a Television Bureau of Advertising ( TVB ) analysis of Kantar CMAG data . Those dollars , though , are far from evenly distributed across the states . More than half of that has gone to 10 states with the most competitive races ( Florida , California , Texas , Colorado , Illinois , Michigan , Georgia , Pennsylvania , North Carolina and New York ) . In Florida , a state with a closely-watched governor 's race pitting incumbent Rick Scott against former Republican-now Democrat Charlie Crist , the political ad spending has topped $ 100 million dollars , the highest among all states .
On balance , Americans today tend to be more concerned about China 's economic strength than its military prowess . Still , the share of the public that believes China is primarily a military threat has risen somewhat over time . In 2012 , 28 % were more concerned about China 's military strength , while 36 % now hold this view . Although economic concerns about China have become less prevalent in recent years , many Americans are still worried about China 's economic strength . The amount of American debt held by China , for instance , is the top concern among the eight sources of tension between the two countries included in the survey .
Eight-in-ten or more Democrats either strongly or somewhat favor each of the five proposals , while there is more variation among Republicans . Even on policies where there is overwhelming bipartisan support – such as requiring police to be trained in nonviolent alternatives to deadly force , favored by nine-in-ten or more in both parties – Democrats are more likely than Republicans to strongly support such a policy ( 84 % vs. 55 % ) . An overwhelming majority of Democrats ( 89 % ) say they favor giving civilian oversight boards power to investigate and discipline officers accused of misconduct , with 62 % saying they strongly favor this . A narrower majority ( 58 % ) of Republicans say they either strongly or somewhat favor oversight boards ( 19 % strongly favor ) . There is a similar pattern of opinion about making it a crime for police to use chokeholds or strangleholds ( 88 % of Democrats and 57 % of Republicans favor this ) . Overwhelming majorities of both Republicans ( 85 % ) and Democrats ( 94 % ) favor creating a federal government database to track officers accused of misconduct . However , while about three-quarters of Democrats ( 77 % ) strongly favor this proposal , fewer than half of Republicans say the same ( 44 % ) .
By a 51 % to 34 % margin , more moderate and liberal Republicans and Republican leaners say they have a favorable than unfavorable view of Jeb Bush , while 15 % do not offer a rating . Among conservative Republicans , the balance of opinion is about the same : 54 % view Bush favorably , while 37 % view him unfavorable and 10 % do not offer a rating . For the five other declared or likely Republican candidates included in the survey , ratings are more positive among conservative than among moderate and liberal Republicans , and this is particularly pronounced in the ratings of Marco Rubio and Scott Walker . For example , by a 60 % to 15 % margin , more conservative Republicans hold a favorable than unfavorable view of Marco Rubio ; 25 % can not offer a rating . Rubio 's ratings among moderate and liberal Republicans are much more mixed ( 34 % favorable , 28 % unfavorable ) , while as many as 38 % can not offer a rating .
Overall views of abortion have changed little in the last year . Currently , around half of the public ( 51 % ) says that abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 43 % say it should be illegal in all or most cases . In September 2014 , a slightly larger share of Americans was in favor of abortion in all or most cases ( 55 % ) , while 40 % were opposed .
There are differences in these views within different religious traditions , too . Among Protestants , white evangelicals are roughly three times as likely as white mainline Protestants to say that drinking alcohol is morally wrong ( 23 % vs. 7 % ) . Like white mainline Protestants , few white Catholics ( 5 % ) view drinking alcohol as morally wrong . However , the higher rate among Catholics overall who say alcohol is morally wrong may be due to the large number of Latinos in the U.S. Catholic Church , and the opposition to alcohol in many Central and South American cultures .
More than a quarter ( 28 % ) of smartphone owners say they do not use a screen lock or other security features to access their phone . And while a majority of smartphone users say they have updated their phone 's apps or operating system , about 40 % say they only update when it 's convenient for them . Meanwhile , some users forgo updating their phones altogether : Around one-in-ten smartphone owners report they never update their phone 's operating system ( 14 % ) or update the apps on their phone ( 10 % ) . The story around mobile security is not all negative . Very few smartphone owners ( 3 % ) say they never update their phone 's apps or operating system or use a screen lock to access their phone . And some users are especially diligent when it comes to mobile security , taking the steps most recommended by cybersecurity experts . Around one-in-five smartphone owners ( 22 % ) , for example , say they use a screen lock for their phone , update their apps either automatically or as soon as an update is available , and immediately update their device 's operating system when a new version is offered .
Nearly three-quarters of the public ( 74 % ) says it is very important that major political donors not have more influence than others , while an additional 16 % view this as somewhat important . However , only a relatively small share of the public feels this is actually the case today . About a quarter ( 26 % ) feel that the statement `` people who give a lot of money to elected officials do not have more influence than others '' describes the country very or somewhat well ; roughly seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) say this does not describe the country well , with 43 % saying it describes it `` not at all well . ''
The 11 emerging economies surveyed exhibit a great deal of variation in terms of religious composition that may contribute to people 's views of multiculturalism in their country . For example , some of the countries have roughly nine-in-ten or more adults belonging to one major religious group . Christians play this role in Colombia , Mexico , the Philippines and Venezuela . In Tunisia and Jordan , nearly everyone identifies as Muslim . People in five countries – Jordan , Lebanon , India , the Philippines and Tunisia – were specifically asked their opinion of other religious groups in their country , and opinion varies widely across these five nations . In Jordan , where about 97 % of the population practices Islam , about nine-in-ten adults or more rated both Muslims and Christians favorably . Similar positivity appeared in Lebanon , with roughly three-quarters or more giving positive reviews to Christian , Sunni and Shiite religious groups . Bigger divisions appear in three of the other surveyed countries that were asked about various religious groups . Favorable views of Sunni Muslims outpaced that of Shiites by more than five-to-one in Tunisia , where Islam is the official religion but very few identify as Shiite . Likewise , in Christian-majority Philippines , favorable views of Christians were nearly universal ( 97 % ) while just 57 % said the same of Muslims in their country .
And nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) say the choice of the next Supreme Court justice is very important to them personally . In April 2010 , after Justice John Paul Stevens announced his retirement from the court , and before Obama named Justice Elena Kagan as his replacement , just 40 % viewed the choice of a new Supreme Court justice as very important .
In some countries , migrants made up a much smaller share of national populations in 2015 . Countries like Turkey ( 4 % ) and Iran ( 3 % ) have low shares of their populations that are either internally displaced persons due to conflict or international migrants , even though millions of migrants live inside their borders . In 2015 , Syria ( 7.1 million ) and Iraq ( 4.7 million ) were home to the largest displaced migrant populations in the Middle East . Large numbers of displaced migrants were also living in Jordan ( 2.9 million ) , Yemen ( 2.8 million ) and Turkey ( 2.8 million ) in 2015 .
As an outbreak of swine flu spreads beyond Mexico into the United States and elsewhere , Americans have started to track the fast developing story closely . The story grew in prominence after the survey went into the field , but 25 % of the public say they followed reports about the deadly flu very closely and 21 % say this was the story – among six choices – that they followed most closely last week . At this point , the amount of interest is similar to several recent health scares , including the spread of a drug-resistant staph infection in the U.S. in late 2007 . The public also continues to closely track the financial problems facing the U.S. auto industry , particularly Chrysler and General Motors . Three-in-ten say they followed these stories very closely . For almost two-in-ten ( 18 % ) , this was the story they followed more closely than any other . Slightly more than one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they were following developments in the debate over whether to set up a bi-partisan commission to investigate the harsh interrogation techniques used by the CIA following the Sept. 11 , 2001 , terror attacks more closely than any other story . Two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they followed this story very closely . The same share ( 21 % ) say they were following events in Iraq very closely last week , while 10 % say this was the news they followed most closely .
In 2014 , just 28 % of Millennials were married . This makes them remarkably different than members of the Silent Generation at the same stage in their lives : fully 64 % of Silents were married when members of their generation were between the ages of 18 and 33 . About half ( 49 % ) of Baby Boomers and 38 % of Gen Xers were married when their generation was ages 18 to 33 . Generational analysis allows for these comparative snapshots , but it also lets researchers track what happens as these cohorts age .
Public attention to the major oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico has yet to drop off as significantly as media coverage . Currently , 39 % say they followed news about the leak very closely last week , not much different from the 42 % that said this one week earlier . Still , that is down sharply from 59 % in the July 22 - 25 survey . More than four-in-ten ( 44 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely last week . The oil leak accounted for 3 % of the coverage measured by PEJ , down from 11 % one week earlier . With the underground well largely sealed , coverage has declined greatly since a peak of 44 % of the newshole in mid-June . More than a quarter ( 27 % ) say they followed news about the immigration debate very closely last week , while 12 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about immigration made up 4 % of the newshole . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed news about this year 's congressional elections very closely , while 5 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the elections , including several hotly contested primaries , proved to be the most covered news of the week , accounting for 15 % of coverage .
At the same time , the proportion of Americans who get news from traditional media platforms – television , radio and print – has been stable or edging downward in the last few years . There has been no overall decline in the percentage saying they watched news on television , and even with the continued erosion of print newspaper and radio audiences , three-quarters of Americans got news yesterday from one or more of these three traditional platforms . The net impact of digital platforms supplementing traditional sources is that Americans are spending more time with the news than was the case a decade ago . As was the case in 2000 , people now say they spend 57 minutes on average getting the news from TV , radio or newspapers on a given day . But today , they also spend an additional 13 minutes getting news online , increasing the total time spent with the news to 70 minutes . This is one of the highest totals on this measure since the mid-1990s and it does not take into account time spent getting news on cell phones or other digital devices .
However , both Israeli Arabs and Arabs living in the Palestinian territories share a common skepticism about current efforts to achieve a peace settlement . Most Israeli Arabs ( 72 % ) and Arabs living in the Palestinian territories ( 84 % ) say the Israeli government is not making a sincere effort to bring peace to the region .
One spot of unity in an otherwise divided environmental policy landscape is that the vast majority of Americans support the concept of expanding both solar and wind power . The public is more closely divided when it comes to expanding fossil fuel energies such as coal mining , offshore oil and gas drilling , and hydraulic fracturing for oil and natural gas . While there are substantial party and ideological divides over increasing fossil fuel and nuclear energy sources , strong majorities of all political groups support more solar and wind production .
Russians give Trump higher marks than they gave Obama or Bush . Amid ongoing controversies and investigations into allegations of links between the Trump presidential campaign and Russia , attitudes toward the U.S. and its president have turned more positive in Russia . Following the outbreak of the Ukraine crisis in 2014 , Russians ' ratings for both the U.S. as a country and for Obama plummeted . However , since 2015 – the last time the Center polled in Russia – favorable opinions of the U.S. have become much more common , and Trump gets better reviews in Russia than either of his predecessors ever did .
In the U.S. , Hispanic identity fades across generations as distance from immigrant roots grows . High intermarriage rates and declining immigration are changing how some Americans with Hispanic ancestry see their identity . Most U.S. adults with Hispanic ancestry self-identify as Hispanic , but 11 % , or 5 million , do not . While nearly all immigrant adults from Latin America or Spain say they are Hispanic , this share decreases by the third and fourth or higher generations .
Among Republican voters , conservatives are more likely than moderates and liberals to have strongly positive reactions to a Trump victory . While 44 % of conservative Republicans say they would be excited by Trump winning reelection , just 22 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say the same .
As the number of unauthorized immigrants levels off , those who remain in the country are more likely to be long-term residents and live with their U.S.-born children .
Many Americans are uncomfortable not only with clergy endorsing candidates from the pulpit at election time , but also with churches and other houses of worship speaking out on day-to-day social and political questions . Overall , more than six-in-ten U.S. adults say places of worship should keep out of political matters ( 63 % ) ; only 36 % think they should express their views on day-to-day social and political issues .
A previous program may offer some insights . One way immigrants may qualify for relief is under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program , which started in 2012 and is now expanding . In that program , applications surged after the program 's launch and trailed off over time . Today , nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of the estimated 1.1 million unauthorized immigrants who are eligible have had their applications accepted for review . DACA offers deportation relief and work authorization to those who came to the U.S. as children . So far , about 702,000 unauthorized immigrants have had their applications accepted for review since the program began in August 2012 , according to recently released U.S . Citizenship and Immigration Services data showing program applications , approvals and renewals through Sept. 30 , 2014 . Of the applicants , 87 % have been approved for the renewable two-year permits .
While only a minority of Americans ( 40 % ) feel it is acceptable for the government to monitor ordinary American citizens , many think it is acceptable to monitor others in a variety of other situations . Americans generally support the use of surveillance to investigate criminal activity , as well as circumstances when a person 's digital activity may raise suspicion of potential involvement with terrorism or violent acts .
Among Christian groups , 61 % of those who are members of the historically black Protestant tradition ( more than half of all black Americans ) read scripture at least weekly , similar to the level seen among those in the evangelical Protestant tradition ( 63 % ) . In addition , those in the historically black Protestant tradition are much more likely than Catholics ( 25 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 30 % ) to say they read scripture at least weekly , though less likely than Jehovah 's Witnesses ( 88 % ) and Mormons ( 77 % ) .
The first full fiscal year of the Trump administration saw large increases in the number of people arrested and criminally prosecuted for immigration offenses such as entering and reentering the United States illegally , according to recently published government data . The number of federal criminal arrests for immigration offenses surged from 58,031 in fiscal 2017 to 108,667 in fiscal 2018 – an 87 % increase , according to an August report by the Bureau of Justice Statistics ( BJS ) . The 2018 total was considerably higher than in any other fiscal year in two decades . Following the same trajectory , the number of suspects who were criminally prosecuted for immigration offenses rose 66 % between fiscal 2017 and 2018 , from 59,797 to 99,479 – also a two-decade high .
News about the aftermath of the deadly earthquake and tsunami in Japan dominated the public 's news interest and media coverage last week . The crisis at Japan 's nuclear plants – far more than other aspects of the story – captured the most public interest . Fully 57 % say they followed news about the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami most closely last week , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted March 17 - 20 among 1,004 adults . Looking at another measure , 55 % say they followed news about the catastrophe very closely . That is close to the 60 % that said they very closely followed news about the earthquake in Haiti in January 2010 shortly after it struck that impoverished Caribbean nation . News about the disaster – most of which centered on the crisis at the damaged nuclear power plants – accounted for 57 % of coverage for the week , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . That makes this one of the most covered stories since PEJ started its weekly analysis four years ago . Late in the week , another major international story – preparations for and the start of a military campaign by the U.S. and allies against Moammar Gadhafi 's forces in Libya –drew heavy coverage , according to PEJ .
About one-in-four ( 26 % ) say they followed news about Congresswomen Gabrielle Giffords ' ongoing recovery very closely . Democrats ( 34 % ) were more likely than Republicans ( 23 % ) or independents ( 22 % ) to say they were following this story very closely . The media devoted 1 % of coverage to Rep. Giffords ' progress . Interest in economic news has changed little in recent weeks . Last week , 36 % were following the economy very closely ; and the media , for its part , devoted 10 % of all coverage to the economy . A new study indicating that lymph node surgery may be unnecessary in some cases for treatment of breast cancer was very closely followed by 11 % of the public and the top story for 3 % of Americans . Women are somewhat more likely than men to say they tracked this story closely : A third of women ( 33 % ) followed this news very or fairly closely compared with 19 % of men . The announcement of new medical guidelines about when women should get mammograms attracted more public interest in Nov. 2009 . Fully , a third of the public ( 34 % ) followed that story very closely .
The Zimmerman trial and Trayvon Martin shooting have drawn less interest than some other racially charged incidents in recent years , including the riots that followed the Rodney King verdict in 1992 ( 70 % very closely ) and O.J . Simpson 's arrest in 1994 ( 48 % ) .
At the same time , even older generations have grown somewhat more unaffiliated in recent years . For example , 14 % of Baby Boomers were unaffiliated in 2007 , and 17 % now identify as `` nones . ''
Voter attention to the 2004 election continues to run high relative to other recent elections . Two-thirds of voters ( 67 % ) say they have given `` quite a lot '' of thought to the coming presidential election , up from 58 % in June . There was a similar rise in public interest in the early summer of 1992 , when fully 72 % of voters have given a lot of thought to the race by August , up from 63 % in June of that year . By comparison , in 1996 and 2000 voters had not given this much thought to the election until October , within weeks of election day .
The largest wave of immigration in history from a single country to the United States has come to a standstill . After four decades that brought 12 million current immigrants—most of whom came illegally—the net migration flow from Mexico to the United States has stopped and may have reversed , according to a new analysis of government data from both countries by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center .
Despite all the attention that political tacticians have paid in recent years to gay marriage as a wedge issue , it ranked dead last in importance among a list of 19 issues rated by registered voters in a June 2006 survey by the Pew Research Center for the People and Press . Education , the economy and health care topped the list ; the minimum wage was in 13th place .
Nearly half of Americans ( 47 % ) say they think of Fox News as `` mostly conservative , '' 14 % say it is `` mostly liberal , '' and 24 % say it is `` neither in particular . '' Opinion about the ideological orientation of other TV news outlets is more mixed : while many view CNN and the three broadcast networks as mostly liberal , about the same percentages say they are neither in particular . However , somewhat more say MSNBC is mostly liberal than say it is neither in particular , by 36 % to 27 % .
Trump voters place low importance on the issue of climate change , but there are some differences in voter priorities by ideology , gender and generation . Two-in-ten moderate or liberal Trump supporters say climate change is very important to their 2020 vote , compared with just 6 % of those who describe their views as conservative . Among Trump supporters , women as well as Millennials and Gen Zers are somewhat more likely than men and older supporters to say the issue of climate change is important to their vote this fall . Still , across all major demographic groups , no more than two-in-ten Trump voters place high importance on the issue .
Although they comprise a relatively small share of the population , these workers who have been impacted by automation express strongly negative views about the current – and future – impact of technology on their own careers . Fully 46 % of these workers feel that technology has decreased their own opportunities for career advancement , while 34 % feel that technology has generally made their work less interesting ( each of these views is shared by just 11 % of other workers ) . And nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) anticipate that their own jobs or professions will be mostly done by machines within their lifetimes – roughly twice the share among workers who have not been impacted by automation in this way ( 28 % ) . More broadly , the survey also finds that the current generation of workforce technologies has had widely disparate impacts on today 's workers . For some – especially those with high levels of educational attainment – technology represents a largely positive force that makes their work more interesting and provides opportunities for career advancement . But those who have not attended college are much less likely to view today 's workforce technologies in such a positive light . When it comes to the overall impact of technology on them in a professional context , just 38 % of workers with high school diplomas or less indicate that technology in general has made their jobs more interesting . And a similarly modest share ( 32 % ) feels that technology has increased their opportunities for career advancement . In each instance , these figures are substantially lower than those reported by workers who have continued their formal education beyond high school .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) say the option to vote early or absentee should be available to any voter without requiring a documented reason , while a third say early and absentee voting should only be allowed with a reason , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 16 - 22 . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents overwhelmingly support so-called `` no excuse '' early or absentee voting : 83 % say this . Among the small share of Democrats who do not , most say the coronavirus outbreak should qualify as a documented reason . GOP views are more divided : 44 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say no documented reason should be necessary to vote early or absentee , while 55 % say one should be . Among Republicans who say a documented reason is needed , most say the coronavirus outbreak should not be considered a valid reason : 37 % of all Republicans say early and absentee voting only should be allowed with a documented reason and say that COVID-19 is not an acceptable reason ; 17 % say a documented reason should be required , but that COVID-19 should be a valid reason . Americans ' support for no-excuse absentee voting has decreased modestly from 71 % in October 2018 to 65 % today – a result of shifting views among Republicans . Today , a 55 % majority of Republicans say voters should only be allowed to vote early or absentee if they have a documented reason for not voting on Election Day , up from 42 % who said this in 2018 .
Fathers have nearly tripled the amount of time they spend with their children , from 2.5 hours in 1965 to 7.3 hours per week in 2011 , according to a Pew Research report that analyzed years of time-use data . Despite that increase , 46 % of fathers said they spent too little time with their children , compared with 23 % of mothers who said the same ; half of dads said they spent the right amount of time .
In early March , 66 % of Democrats said that the country is headed in the right direction . That compared with 35 % of independents and just 11 % of Republicans . The partisan differences were much smaller in views of national satisfaction . Slightly more than a quarter of Democrats ( 27 % ) said they were satisfied with the way things are going , compared with 20 % of independents and 11 % of Republicans . Since Barack Obama was elected in November , Democrats have become increasingly optimistic about the direction of the country . In October , just 4 % of Democrats believed the country was heading in the right direction ; by December , more than three-in-ten ( 32 % ) were optimistic about the country 's direction . In the first NBC/WSJ poll conducted after Obama 's inauguration , two-thirds of Democrats ( 66 % ) said the country was headed in the right direction . Over this five-month period , Democratic levels of satisfaction have also increased , but less so ( from a low of 2 % in October to 27 % in early March ) . Republican opinion , by contrast , has followed a different pattern . Satisfaction levels among Republicans in early March were about the same as in October , while fewer now say the country is headed in the right direction ( 11 % compared with 21 % in October ) . Independent assessments of the state of the nation have become more positive on both measures since the election .
Currently , 48 % of Americans have a favorable impression of the Supreme Court , while 43 % view the court unfavorably . Unfavorable opinions of the court , while up only modestly since March ( 39 % ) , are the highest recorded since 1985 .
When asked about the British role in the world today , European publics tend to believe it is static or in decline . Half or more in the Netherlands , France , Germany and Sweden think the UK plays a less important role than a decade ago . No more than about quarter in any country say the UK 's status has improved . In the UK itself , 39 % say their country 's position in the world has diminished in the last 10 years . These views are largely unchanged since 2016 .
More generally , the vast majority of Americans tell pollsters that they are willing to vote for a qualified African American candidate for president . In a Newsweek poll conducted last year , just 3 % said they would not do so . This was not always the case . Gallup has asked a version of this question since 1958 . Most recently , in 2003 , 92 % said they would vote for a black candidate for president while just 6 % said they would not . But in 1958 , a majority of 53 % said they would not vote for a black candidate ; even as recently as 1984 , 16 % told Gallup they would not do so .
Republicans retain 91 % of those who said in the June survey that they would choose the Republican candidate for Congress , while 92 % of voters who chose a Democrat for Congress in June remain committed to a Democratic candidate . About half of voters who chose a third party candidate or were not sure of their vote in June now support one of the two major parties in October , splitting about evenly between Republicans and Democrats ( 30 % Republican , 24 % Democratic ) .
Most think human rights organizations are making a difference . When asked how much influence human rights organizations are having on the way things are going in their countries , solid majorities of Indonesians , Kenyans , Mexicans and Indians said either a great deal or a fair amount . Still , no more than 30 % in any of these nations said these groups are having a great deal of influence .
With the New Hampshire primary on Jan. 10 , the presidential campaign was the public 's and the media 's top story last week . Three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say this was the news they followed most closely ; 20 % say their top story was the economy . Campaign news dominated coverage , accounting for 41 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
Saudi Arabia has a young and rapidly growing Muslim population . The kingdom has more than 30 million inhabitants , and roughly 93 % of them are Muslim , according to Pew Research Center data . The country is officially a Muslim nation and most Saudi Muslims are Sunni . However , a Shia minority accounts for an estimated 10 % to 15 % of the population . Additionally , Saudi Arabia is a young country : In 2015 , about 56 % of the kingdom 's Muslims were under the age of 30 . The number of Muslims in Saudi Arabia is projected to increase 51 % between 2015 and 2050 , though their share of the global Muslim population is expected to remain small at about 2 % .
An analysis of voters living in areas with two or three major political contests this November shows that only 12 % of registered voters say they are splitting their vote between multiple political parties . About three-quarters of registered voters ( 74 % ) in these areas say they will select candidates from the same party for all major political races in their area , known as `` straight ticket '' voting .
Among Republicans , nearly half ( 46 % ) view Israelis favorably and Palestinians unfavorably . Yet almost as many Republicans hold some other combination of opinions , including 30 % who feel favorably toward both peoples . Democrats , by contrast , are more likely to view both Israelis and Palestinians positively ( 46 % are favorable to both peoples ) . The pattern of opinion is different in views of the two governments . About half of Democrats ( 53 % ) have unfavorable views of both governments ; that is larger than the shares with mixed views or favorable views of both governments . Among Republicans , 51 % view the Israeli government favorably and the Palestinian government unfavorably , which is larger than the shares giving other sets of opinions .
Favorable views of labor unions have plummeted since 2007 , amid growing public skepticism about unions ' purpose and power . Currently , 41 % say they have a favorable opinion of labor unions while about as many ( 42 % ) express an unfavorable opinion . In January 2007 , a clear majority ( 58 % ) had a favorable view of unions while just 31 % had an unfavorable impression .
Younger adults are especially likely to live out their relationships through social networking sites . Some 48 % of SNS users ages 18 - 29 have used these sites to check up on someone they dated in the past , and 31 % have posted details or pictures from a date on a social networking site .
Another way of looking at youth employment , or the lack thereof , is by focusing on `` NEETs '' – that is , young people who are neither employed nor in education or training . In 2018 , 14.8 % of all Americans ages 16 to 29 – or about 9 million young people – were NEETs . In 2013 , the first year for which comparable data is available , there were about 11 million NEETs in the U.S. , or 18.5 % of the 16-to-29 population . The Center 's 2016 analysis found that in the U.S. , the NEET youth population is more female than male ( 57 % to 43 % ) . Two-thirds of U.S. NEETs have a high-school education or less , and black and Hispanic 16- to 29-year-olds were more likely than whites and Asians to be NEETs .
In late 2013 , Indians were mired in dissatisfaction with the way things were going in their country . They were only moderately satisfied with economic conditions . And barely half had a favorable view of then-Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , a member of the long-ruling Indian National Congress party ( INC ) . In 2015 , a year after an election swept the opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) into power , public satisfaction with India 's direction has nearly doubled and pride in the country is up compared with findings from a Pew Research Center survey conducted in December 2013 and January 2014 . Almost three-quarters of the public now think economic conditions are good . And about two-thirds have a very favorable view of current Prime Minister Narendra Modi . This high level of approval is two to three times that for other leading Indian politicians , according to a new 2015 Pew Research Center survey .
As one might expect , working in science , technology , engineering and math ( STEM ) – or earning a postgraduate degree in a STEM field – is closely related to liking science and math classes in grades K-12 . But many of those who work in other occupations or have a degree in a different field liked one or both of these subjects as well .
Americans ' views of how free trade agreements have affected their families ' finances have shown less change in recent years . Today , 44 % say free trade agreements have definitely or probably helped their financial situation , while 38 % say they have definitely or probably hurt their finances .
Large shares of voters – in both parties – say which party controls Congress is a factor in their vote this year . About three-quarters of registered voters who support Democratic candidates ( 77 % ) and those who support Republican candidates ( 73 % ) say which party controls Congress will factor into their vote . And large majorities of those backing Democrats ( 77 % ) and those supporting Republicans ( 82 % ) expect their party to hold a House majority after the elections . But Republicans are more bullish than Democrats about Senate control : 87 % of Republican voters expect the GOP to hold a Senate majority ; 62 % of Democratic voters expect their party to have the majority .
Along with a democratically elected government , another defining feature of Japan 's post-WWII existence has been its close relationship with the United States . Japanese attitudes toward America have oscillated over the past decade , but in 2017 public opinion about both the U.S. and its newly elected president took a decidedly negative turn .
Overall , the stock market was in the top tier of news stories , both in terms of public interest and news coverage during the week of Feb. 26 . In a week crowded with news , the situation in Iraq maintained the top spot , as 37 % of the public followed this story very closely and 30 % listed it as the story they followed most closely . News about Iraq , both the policy debate and events on the ground , made up 11 % of the newshole for the week . The public also paid very close attention to the deadly tornadoes in the South . Fully one-third followed this story very closely and 20 % listed it as their top story . News coverage of the tornadoes , which occurred late in the week , made up 6 % of the newshole . Interest in the Anna Nicole Smith saga remained about the same last week , in spite of the fact that media coverage of the story dropped off significantly . Some 14 % of the public followed the Smith story very closely ( basically unchanged from 13 % the previous week ) , and 13 % listed Smith 's death when asked which story they had followed most closely . As has been the case since the story broke , younger women remain the most riveted by Smith 's story . Women under age 50 were nearly three times more likely than men in that same age group to say Smith 's death was the story they followed most closely last week ( 23 % vs. 8 % , respectively ) .
News reports last week about the escalating conflict between Israel and Hamas competed for public attention with stories about the U.S. financial crisis and the Obama presidential transition . Roughly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) paid very close attention to news about renewed fighting in the Gaza Strip , while 18 % say this was the single news story they followed most closely . Still , in a week in which the media devoted more space to Middle East coverage than any other story , Americans remained most focused on the continuing economic crisis . Public interest in the first days of the latest Middle East conflict is on par with other recent foreign news stories , but is lower than interest in the Israel-Hezbollah war in August 2006 : 40 % followed news of that conflict very closely . It is important to note that the current survey was already in the field when Israel launched its ground invasion on Jan. 3 , ratcheting up the intensity of the conflict and the media coverage . According to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , reports from the Middle East led all news coverage last week , accounting for 21 % of the newshole .
The graphic below plots out the interest and coverage levels for many top weekly stories of the year . For long-running stories , such as the economy or the Gulf oil spill , the numbers have been averaged and are represented by larger square dots . The bold diagonal line represents the typical relationship between coverage and interest across the entire year 's worth of weekly measurements ( as defined by a simple regression analysis ) . Data points above the diagonal line represent stories in which public interest was high relative to the amount of press coverage . Those points below the line show stories in which press coverage was high relative to the amount of public interest . In both directions , the farther a story is from the line , the greater the gap between interest and coverage .
Views about the role of human activity in climate change also vary by education among Democrats , but not among Republicans . Democrats who have graduated from college are more likely to say human activity contributes a great deal to climate change than Democrats without a college degree . For example , 86 % of Democrats with a postgraduate degree say human activity contributes a great deal to climate change , compared with a smaller majority ( 58 % ) of Democrats with no college experience . Among Republicans , comparably small shares across level of education see human activity as contributing a great deal to climate change .
These so-called `` opt-out moms '' ( roughly 10 % of all highly educated mothers ) make up just 1 % of the nation 's 35 million mothers ages 18 to 69 who are living with their children younger than 18 . For our purposes , `` opt-out moms '' are mothers who have at least a Master 's degree , an annual family income of $ 75,000 or more ; a working husband ; and who state that they are out of the workforce in order to care for their family . In families with these highly educated , affluent non-working moms , it may be the husbands who are bringing home the bacon , but in 37 % of the cases , it is the stay-at-home wives who actually have a higher level of education . In 45 % of these families , the spouses have equal educational attainment , and in about 18 % of the cases , the husbands have more education than their wives . An estimate using a slightly different methodology suggests that the share of all U.S. married couples where the wife has more education than the husband is about 21 % .
Last March , more than a year before the first primaries , more voters valued a hypothetical candidate with `` experience and a proven record '' ( 50 % ) than one who had `` new ideas and a different approach '' ( 43 % ) . Just six months later , those numbers had flipped – 55 % said it was more important for a candidate to have new ideas , while 37 % valued experience and a proven record .
Population 2050 : The global population is expected to increase by 38 % , from 6.9 billion in 2010 to 9.6 billion in 2050 . The population of children younger than 15 is projected to increase by only 10 % , a consequence of falling birth rates .
Beware of drawing distinctions . They may not be significant . Any effort to draw distinctions between different news sources must keep in mind that survey data are subject to a margin of sampling error , and one should use appropriate caution . We will not characterize one source as more trusted than another if the differences between them are so small that they could have occurred just by chance as a result of sampling error . Moreover , many small differences may pass a test of statistical significance but be substantively meaningless . This is the reason why , in the graphics that you see in our report , we group sources in broad categories such as `` Sources Trusted by more than 50 % of Panelists '' and `` Sources More Trusted than Distrusted . '' For example , The Guardian , Bloomberg and The New Yorker sit next to each other in the `` more trusted than distrusted '' section of the adjacent chart . Statistically , their ratios of trust over distrust are equivalent ( 1.7 , 1.4 and 1.4 , respectively ) .
In May 1999 , shortly after the shootings at Columbine High School , more than twice as many Americans said it was more important to control gun ownership ( 65 % ) than to protect the rights of Americans to own guns ( 30 % ) . Support for gun control slipped to the mid-50 % range in 2000 and remained at about that level through 2008 . Since April 2008 , the number saying it is more important to control gun ownership has fallen by 12 points – from 58 % to 46 % . Over this period , there has been a nine-point increase ( from 37 % to 46 % ) in the proportion saying it is more important to protect gun rights .
One other question , not included as part of the scale , asked survey respondents which of two statements best describes the scientific method : That it produces findings meant to be continually tested and updated over time , or that it identifies unchanging core principles and truths . Two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say the scientific method is designed to be iterative , producing findings that are continually tested and updated , while 15 % say the method produces unchanging core principles and truths , and 17 % say they are not sure .
Among adults under age 30 , 70 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , as do nearly two-thirds of adults in their 30s and 40s ( 64 % ) . More than half of those in their 50s and early 60s ( 54 % ) and those ages 65 and older ( 55 % ) say the same .
Overall , Americans support protecting the environment , but there are deep partisan divides on the issue . In a Pew Research Center survey conducted last year , about three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 74 % ) said `` the country should do whatever it takes to protect the environment , '' compared with 23 % who said `` the country has gone too far in its efforts to protect the environment . '' Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents have consistently been more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say the country should do whatever it takes to protect the environment . But as Republican support has decreased since 2004 , the gap between the two groups has widened to 38 percentage points .
While public trust in scientists and their work can be mixed , a strong majority of the American public thinks of science as having a positive effect on society , and most expect continued benefits to accrue from science in the years ahead . About seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 73 % ) say science has had a positive effect on society , just 3 % say it has had a negative effect and 23 % say it has yielded an equal mix of positive and negative effects , according to a Pew Research Center survey . White adults are more likely than black and Hispanic adults to see the effects of science in positive terms . And people who have higher levels of factual knowledge about science , based on an 11-item index , are especially likely to think science has had a positive effect overall .
As the size of the active-duty U.S. military has edged downward , its demographic makeup has changed , largely in ways that reflect trends in the broader society . There were 1,340,533 active-duty troops in 2015 ( including those serving in the U.S. Coast Guard ) . This marks the smallest active-duty force since 2001 , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of data from the U.S. Department of Defense ( DOD ) . In addition , the share of Americans serving in the active-duty military has declined marginally to 0.4 % of the population in 2015 ( down from 0.5 % in 2009 ) .
Millennials may be less attached to institutional religion than older Americans , but generally they are no more argumentative about religion than other generations . For example , roughly two-thirds of Baby Boomers ( 67 % ) , Generation Xers ( 69 % ) and Millennials ( 68 % ) and 62 % of the Silent Generation say the best thing to do when they encounter someone who disagrees with them about religion is to try to understand the other person 's views and agree to disagree . And just 7 % of Boomers and Silents as well as 5 % of Millennials and 4 % of those in Generation X would try to change the person 's mind .
The overall gap between the two parties in opinions about political values – which increased in 2003 – has hit another new high , with widening differences emerging over the government 's overall performance and its responsibilities to the poor . In the wake of the election , Republicans have swung to a much more critical view of government while more Democrats take a positive view than at any previous point in the 22-year history of this study .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 25 - 30 among 1,504 adults , finds that Trump 's job rating is lower than it was in June and February ( 39 % on each occasion ) . Most Americans continue to have strong feelings about the president , with about twice as many strongly disapproving of his job performance as strongly approving ( 51 % to 25 % ) . Since earlier this year , approval ratings for the congressional leaders of both parties have fallen – largely because fewer Republicans and Democrats are expressing positive views of their own parties ' leaders .
More than three decades of Gallup polls also show a considerable rise in the view that being gay or lesbian is a product of `` nature '' rather than `` nurture . '' But the most recent survey , in 2014 , still finds that the nation remains split in its feelings on the origins of sexual orientation . The 2014 Gallup poll found that 42 % of respondents said gay people are born that way , while 37 % said people are gay due to `` factors such as their upbringing and environment . '' Gallup 's surveys ask the question somewhat differently than do Pew Research surveys ; Gallup does not offer respondents the option to say that homosexuality is a choice .
Overall , black immigrants earn college degrees at a slightly lower rate than Americans in general , but the share of foreign-born blacks from Africa with a college degree is higher than that of the overall U.S. population . About one-quarter ( 26 % ) of foreign-born blacks ages 25 and older had at least a bachelor 's degree in 2013 , which falls somewhat below that of the overall U.S. population , at 30 % . However , black immigrants ages 25 and older from Africa have high levels of educational attainment – 35 % have a college degree , a higher share than Americans overall .
Across the 38 countries surveyed , there is a strong positive association between overall negative perceptions of the national economy and general assessment of the global economy as a major threat . For example , in Greece , 98 % say their nation 's economic situation is bad and 88 % name the condition of the global economy as the top threat . By contrast , only 12 % in the Netherlands say their national economy is bad , with a corresponding 21 % who name the worldwide economy as a great concern .
In the U.S. , both Republicans and Democrats name the UK as their most trusted partner , although Democrats are more likely to say this . Republicans are also more likely to name Israel as the preeminent partner than are Democrats . But equal shares from both parties see Germany as a top partner , and the same can be said of China .
The share of Americans who say stricter environmental laws and regulations are `` worth the cost '' has ticked up in recent years , with a significant shift coming among Republicans . Today , 63 % of U.S. adults say stricter environmental regulations are `` worth the cost , '' while 30 % say such regulations `` cost too many jobs and hurt the economy , '' according to a new survey by Pew Research Center . Two years ago , the balance of opinion was narrower , as 59 % said stricter environmental regulations were worth the cost , while 37 % said they cost too many jobs . Partisanship continues to be a major factor in opinions about tougher environmental laws , with Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents far more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners to view stricter laws and regulations as worth the cost .
At an individual level , this means that a rural broadband user should be about as likely as a suburban or urban internet user to be a heavy internet user . As the figure below shows , rural broadband internet users are nearly as likely as non-rural counterparts to use the internet on a given or go online several times a day . The percentage point differences between rural and non-rural broadband users are not statistically significant .
Attention to the presidential election at this point in the cycle is also at a historic high in Pew Research Center surveys dating back more than three decades . Today , 63 % of all U.S. adults say they have been following news about candidates for the 2020 presidential election very or fairly closely . This is 9 points higher than in August of 2015 , and 10 or more points higher than similar points for all elections dating back to when this question was first asked in 1987 . In the past , attention to presidential candidates was generally higher in election years when both political parties held primary contests . For example , early interest in news about candidates was higher in 2015 and 2007 than it was in 2011 – when only one party held primaries for the presidential nomination .
Smartphone-using teens are more likely to be in daily contact with their closest friend than teens without smartphone access ( 62 % vs. 51 % ) . They are also more likely to have made a friend online : Six-in-ten teens with a smartphone have made at least one friend online , compared with 48 % of those who do not use smartphones . There is also a bit more drama associated with smartphone-using teens . They are more likely to say they have argued with a friend about something that first happened online or via text than those who do not have a smartphone ( 29 % vs. 19 % ) .
The most closely followed story this week was the ongoing rollout of the 2010 Affordable Care Act , with 37 % saying they followed reports `` very closely . '' Roughly equal shares of Republicans ( 43 % ) and Democrats ( 36 % ) followed health care news closely .
As the Supreme Court prepares to decide a key case involving states ' requirements to recognize same-sex marriage , public support for allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally continues its rapid rise : A 57 % majority of Americans now favor allowing same-sex marriage and 39 % oppose . As recently as five years ago , more opposed ( 48 % ) same-sex marriage than supported it ( 42 % ) .
About a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) say they very closely followed news about the deadly suicide bomb in Afghanistan on Dec. 30 that killed seven CIA employees and a Jordanian intelligence officer ; 6 % say this was the story they followed most closely last week . The incident accounted for 3 % of coverage , according to PEJ . And with the announcement that several prominent lawmakers would not seek reelection this year , stories about the midterm elections made up 8 % of coverage . Two-in-ten Americans say they followed news about the 2010 elections very closely . Just 2 % say they followed these stories more closely than any other major news .
Substantial shares of people in three African nations – Nigeria , Tunisia and Kenya – say they plan to move to another country within five years , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2018 . In Nigeria , Africa 's most populated nation , nearly half ( 45 % ) of adults say they plan to move to another country within five years , by far the highest share among 12 countries surveyed across four continents . Meanwhile , a quarter ( 24 % ) of adults in Tunisia say they plan to leave within five years , as do 19 % in Kenya . In 2017 , substantial shares in Senegal , Ghana and South Africa said the same .
Eight-in-ten Americans ( 80 % ) report that they reduce their food waste for environmental reasons . Large shares of the public ( 72 % ) say they use fewer plastics that can not be reused such as plastic bags , straws , cups or reduce their water consumption ( 68 % ) to help the environment .
The flow of immigrants from Mexico to the United States has declined sharply since mid-decade , but there is no evidence of an increase during this period in the number of Mexican-born migrants returning home from the U.S. , according to a new analysis by the Pew Hispanic Center of government data from both countries .
The more extreme an enhancement is , and the more permanent any change is , the less likely people are to embrace it . For example , while 47 % say it would be an appropriate use of synthetic blood substitutes if it results in improvements equal to their own peak abilities , just 28 % of adults say synthetic blood substitutes resulting in speed , strength and stamina `` far above that of any human to date '' would be appropriate .
People who use social media sites are also more likely today than in the past to describe the political discourse on these platforms in negative terms . Roughly two-thirds of users ( 68 % ) now say they find it `` stressful and frustrating '' to talk about politics on social media with people they disagree with , up from 59 % in 2016 . Conversely , 27 % of users today say they find these interactions `` interesting and informative , '' compared with 35 % three years prior . The new survey also finds that users generally do not find common ground with others during online discussions about politics . Two-thirds of users ( 67 % ) say that discussing politics on social media with people they disagree with usually leads them to find out they have `` less in common politically '' than they expected . About a quarter ( 26 % ) report finding out they have `` more in common '' than previously thought . These shares are statistically unchanged from 2016 .
Only , in neighboring Canada does a 53 % -majority describe Americans as rude . Interestingly , Americans themselves are more likely to assign that negative characteristic to their fellow countrymen ( 35 % do so ) than are the residents of Great Britain ( 29 % ) , the Netherlands ( 26 % ) and Poland ( 21 % ) . And a scant 12 % of Germans find Americans lacking in politeness .
While worries about the war have increased , public appraisals of the war and emotional reactions to it have become less volatile . Pew 's tracking survey of more than 2,700 Americans , conducted from March 20 to April 1 , shows that public perceptions of the war , which fluctuated wildly in the opening days of the war , have settled down . In recent days ( March 28-April 1 ) , about four-in-ten Americans ( 39 % ) said the war was going very well . That marked little change from the previous period ( March 23 - 27 ) , when 42 % felt the war was going very well . As many as 65 % believed this during the first few days of the war , when American forces encountered little resistance and there was widespread speculation that Saddam Hussein might have been injured or killed in the March 19 air strike on Baghdad ( See `` Public Confidence in War Effort Falters , '' March 25 , 2003 ) . Similarly , the latest round of polling shows that emotional reactions to the war have also stabilized . The percentage who say they have been depressed by the war grew from 30 % in the first two days of the war to 40 % by March 25 - 27 ; it has remained at about that level since then . Levels of reported depression are lower than during the first phase of the Persian Gulf War ( 50 % reported being depressed by the war ) , and much lower than in the aftermath of Sept. 11 ( 71 % ) . Other emotional responses to the war have also remained stable in recent days , including sadness , fright , and fatigue .
Of all major racial/ethnic groups , Latinos have the lowest rates of health insurance coverage . Access to health care is strongly influenced by the options available . Hispanics often work for employers who do not provide coverage . At the same time , disparities are not as large among the elderly because of Medicare 's wide coverage . In 2000 , 34 percent of Hispanics under the age of 65 lacked any type of health insurance coverage , compared with 11 percent of non-Hispanic whites . Lack of health insurance varies widely by national origin group and place of birth . One- fifth of native-born Latinos lack coverage , compared with a quarter of foreign-born Latinos who have naturalized , and nearly 55 percent of foreign-born Latinos who do not have U.S. citizenship . Low rates of insurance among Latinos may contribute to the fact that Hispanics are less likely than whites to use health services for preventive care .
A 63 % majority of women say obstacles continue to make it harder for women than men today , compared with 34 % who say they are largely gone . Among men , 41 % think women still face obstacles that make it harder to get ahead , while 56 % say those challenges have mostly been eliminated . ( For more on women in society , see the Center 's report `` Women and Leadership , '' released last year . )
Overall , around 5 million U.S.-born children younger than 18 were living with at least one unauthorized immigrant parent in 2016 , up from around 4.5 million in 2007 , according to the new estimates . The number of U.S.-born children has leveled off in recent years , reflecting the decline in births and the decrease in the unauthorized immigrant population since the Great Recession .
The share of the population with military experience – counting those who are on active duty or were in the past – has fallen by more than half since 1980 . Then , 18 % of adults were serving or had served in the military . By 2014 , the share had declined to 8 % , according to Census Bureau data , with an additional 1 % serving in the reserves . Among U.S. men , the decline was even more dramatic , dropping from 45 % in 1960 to 37 % in 1980 and 16 % in 2014 . The number of people currently on active duty has also dropped significantly in the past half-century , falling from 3.1 million in 1966 – during the military draft era – to 1.3 million in today 's all-voluntary force , less than 1 % of all U.S. adults . However , the decline in the share of the population with military experience has been driven primarily by the shrinking number of U.S. veterans as many pass away . In 1980 , 18 % of U.S. adults were veterans , compared with 8 % in 2014 , according to census data .
Pressures related to economic well-being and insecurity may help to explain why , beyond a general willingness to migrate , substantial shares of sub-Saharan Africans say they actually plan to move to another country in the next five years . Among the six countries polled , the share with plans to migrate ranges from roughly four-in-ten or more in Senegal ( 44 % ) , Ghana ( 42 % ) and Nigeria ( 38 % ) to fewer than one-in-ten in Tanzania ( 8 % ) .
About one-in-five multiracial Americans , including about a third of all black mixed-race adults , have dressed or behaved in a certain way in an attempt to influence how others see their race . According to our survey , fully 21 % of mixed-race adults have attempted to influence how others saw their race . About one-in-ten multiracial adults have talked ( 12 % ) , dressed ( 11 % ) or worn their hair ( 11 % ) in a certain way in order to affect how others saw their race . A similar share ( 11 % ) say they associated with certain people to alter how others saw their racial background . ( The survey did not ask respondents to identify which race or races they sought to resemble . )
At the same time , a third or more of Americans think that unethical behavior is treated relatively lightly – that is to say , wrongdoers face serious consequences only a little of the time or less often . Indeed , majorities believe that members of Congress ( 79 % ) , local elected officials ( 57 % ) , leaders of technology companies ( 55 % ) and journalists ( 54 % ) admit mistakes and take responsibility for them only a little of the time or none of the time . Some 49 % say the same of religious leaders .
Fully 64 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters say Trump would make a terrible president . That is by far the highest percentage among the seven GOP candidates in the survey .
Despite those fairly benign views , unionization rates in the United States have dwindled in recent decades ( even though , in the past few years , the absolute number of union members has grown slightly ) . As of 2017 , just 10.7 % of all wage and salary workers were union members , matching the record low set in 2016 , according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) . Back in 1983 , when the BLS data series begins , about a fifth ( 20.1 % ) of wage and salary workers belonged to a union . ( Unionization peaked in 1954 at 34.8 % of all U.S. wage and salary workers , according to separate data from the Congressional Research Service . )
The vast majority of Pakistanis agree with Malala , not the Taliban , on the issue of girls ' education . In a 2014 Pew Research Center survey , 86 % said education is equally important for boys and girls . This included 85 % of men and 87 % of women .
Last week , foreign news dominated the public 's news interest with more than seven-in-ten saying they tracked either news about Japan ( 57 % ) or about allied air strikes in Libya ( 15 % ) more closely than any other news . That is rarely the case for this index , which measures public interest in a wide range of stories . In mid-October of last year , 40 % said the dramatic rescue of a crew of Chilean miners trapped in an underground mine was their top story of the week . Despite the fast approaching congressional elections , nothing else came close .
Even among LGBT adults , a relatively small share in our survey said they could relate to transgender people : Only 15 % of gay men , 11 % of lesbians and 12 % of bisexuals said they share `` a lot '' of common concerns and identity with transgender adults .
The decade-long decline in U.S. newsroom employment hit midcareer workers the hardest . The number of full-time midcareer newsroom employees – defined as those ages 35 to 54 – dropped by 42 % between 2008 and 2018 , from about 52,900 to 30,800 workers , according to Census Bureau data . The number of newsroom workers ages 55 and older increased by 31 % during this period , from about 16,400 to 21,400 – but not enough to offset the losses in the midcareer age group . The number of younger newsroom employees ( ages 18 to 34 ) remained relatively stable , with no significant change occurring over the decade .
Currently , 67 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners view Russia 's `` power and influence '' as a major threat to the U.S. Last April , just 37 % of Democrats said `` tensions with Russia '' posed a major threat . Republicans ' views are little changed over this period , and today just 41 % regard Russia 's power as a major threat to the U.S .
In recent years , the image of the United States has been largely negative in Turkey . In fact , Turkey was the country in which the U.S. received its lowest favorability rating in every Pew Global Attitudes survey conducted between 2006 and 2009 . This year , just 17 % of Turks have a positive opinion of the U.S. , tying Turkey with Pakistan and Egypt for the lowest U.S. favorability rating among the 22 nations surveyed .1 Still , the number of Turks who hold a positive view of the U.S. is larger today than it was at its nadir in 2007 , when only 9 % rated the U.S. favorably . For instance , as negotiations regarding Turkey 's bid for membership in the European Union have stalled , attitudes toward the EU have deteriorated . In 2004 , 58 % of Turks held a favorable opinion of the EU , however , by 2009 this number had plummeted to 22 % . Views of the EU have improved slightly over the last year — currently , 28 % rate the organization favorably . Support for joining the EU has also declined : in 2005 , 68 % of Turks wanted their country to become an EU member ; today , a slim 54 % majority holds this view . Ratings for Iran and China have also tumbled in recent years . In 2006 , when the Pew Global Attitudes Project first asked about Iran , 53 % of Turks expressed a positive opinion ; today , just with 26 % hold this view . In 2005 , 40 % expressed a favorable opinion of China , compared with 20 % now . However , as is the case with the EU , ratings for both Iran and China did improve marginally between 2009 and 2010 .
In 2010 , the incarceration rate for white men under local , state and federal jurisdiction was 678 inmates per 100,000 white U.S. residents ; for black men , it was 4,347 . According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics , black men were more than six times as likely as white men to be incarcerated in 2010 .
Like Americans overall , Catholics are divided by party on the question of whether abortion should be legal . Most Catholics who identify as Republican or lean toward the Republican Party ( 63 % ) said abortion should be illegal in all or most cases , while an even larger share of Catholics who identify as Democrats or lean that way ( 77 % ) said abortion should be legal in all or most cases , the 2019 survey showed . Still , roughly one-third of Catholic Republicans ( 36 % ) favored legal abortion , while 17 % of Catholic Democrats opposed it , reflecting some dissent within both parties on this issue .
When asked about eight potential threats to their country , Russians said that Islamic extremist groups pose the biggest danger according to a Spring 2013 survey by the Pew Research Center . More than half ( 53 % ) claimed such groups were a major threat , trumping other potential dangers such as international financial instability ( 46 % ) and global climate change ( 46 % ) . Women ( 57 % ) were more likely than men ( 49 % ) to consider such extremism a major threat .
Nearly three-quarters of white adults who report that they regularly attend religious services ( 72 % ) say they are `` very '' or `` somewhat '' confident they could safely attend in-person services right now at their regular house of worship without spreading or catching the coronavirus . By contrast , around half of Black ( 49 % ) and Hispanic ( 51 % ) Americans who are similarly observant express such confidence . The other half of Black and Hispanic attenders say they are `` not too '' or `` not at all '' confident they could safely go to in-person religious services right now without spreading or catching the virus , according to the survey , which was conducted July 13 to 19 .
Compared with concerns about Russian or Chinese influence , worries about U.S. power and influence are relatively high in Argentina , Brazil , Mexico and Tunisia . More than half in these countries say U.S. power is a major threat to their country . By comparison , concerns about the U.S. are relatively lower in sub-Saharan Africa and Israel . In none of these countries does a majority express concern about Russian or Chinese power .
Younger adults are considerably more likely to say the U.S. has handled the outbreak poorly than older ones . Around two-thirds of those under 30 ( 65 % ) say the U.S. has done a poor job , compared with 59 % of those ages 30 to 49 and only around four-in-ten of those 50 and older .
In a new survey , fewer than a quarter of registered voters express `` warm '' or positive views of McConnell , the Senate majority leader . When asked to rate the two senators on a `` feeling thermometer '' – in which 100 represents the warmest rating and 0 the coldest – 23 % of voters say they feel very or somewhat warmly toward McConnell . Just 13 % give him a very warm rating of 76 or more on the scale .
And while the UK and China rank in the top three positions across party lines , more Republicans ( 25 % ) than Democrats ( 5 % ) name Israel as a top foreign policy partner for the U.S . There are also significant partisan differences in opinion on views about Canada and Mexico .
The deadly crash of a cruise ship off of the coast of Italy and the latest developments in the 2012 presidential campaign topped the public 's news interests last week . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say they followed news about the cruise ship accident more closely than any other news . A comparable percentage ( 23 % ) say they followed news about candidates for the 2012 presidential election most closely , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Jan. 19 - 22 among 1,002 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . But the protest by popular websites against proposed online piracy legislation was a top story for young people . Nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) of those younger than 30 say they followed news about the online piracy fight most closely . That is about the same as the percentage following the 2012 elections most closely ( 21 % ) . Among the public as a whole , just 7 % say they followed news about the web protests – which included sites such as Wikipedia going dark for the day – more closely than any other story . News about the election and the battle for the Republican nomination received much more media attention than any other story . Election news accounted for 41 % of coverage , far more than the crash of the Costa Concordia cruise ship . The accident made up 10 % of coverage , according to an analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
In Florida , the number of Hispanic registered voters reached 2.2 million this year , an 8.4 % increase over 2016 . This is nearly double the increase from the previous midterm election in 2014 , when Hispanic voter registration increased 4.6 % over 2012 .
Nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) of cell phone owners now use their phone to go online , according to a new survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project . We call them `` cell internet users '' and define them as anyone who uses their cell phone to access the internet or use email . Because 91 % of all Americans now own a cell phone , this means that 57 % of all American adults are cell internet users . The proportion of cell owners who use their phone to go online has doubled since 2009 .
Younger adults are far more likely than their elders to often get news on a mobile device . About seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) adults ages 18 to 29 often get news this way , compared with 38 % among those ages 65 and older . Conversely , those 65 and older are more likely to often get news on a desktop or laptop computer than those ages 18 to 29 ( 34 % vs. 23 % ) . Race and partisanship also play a role in mobile news use . For example , about six-in-ten Hispanic adults ( 63 % ) often get news through a mobile device , compared with 54 % of whites . The opposite is true when it comes to getting news on desktop or laptop computers ( 23 % among Hispanic adults vs. 31 % of whites ) . Black adults fall between Hispanic and white adults on this question . Meanwhile , roughly six-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 62 % ) often get news on a mobile device , compared with 53 % of Republicans and Republican leaners . When it comes to desktop news use , there are no major differences between Democrats and Republicans . Those with more formal education and higher incomes are more likely to get news on both mobile and desktop or laptop computers . U.S. adults with a college degree , for instance , are more likely to often get news on mobile than those with a high school education or less ( 65 % vs. 49 % ) .
In the context of these developments , a Pew Research Center survey of adults in 11 emerging economies finds these publics are worried about the risks associated with social media and other communications technologies – even as they cite their benefits in other respects . Succinctly put , the prevailing view in the surveyed countries is that mobile phones , the internet and social media have collectively amplified politics in both positive and negative directions – simultaneously making people more empowered politically and potentially more exposed to harm . When it comes to the benefits , adults in these countries see digital connectivity enhancing people 's access to political information and facilitating engagement with their domestic politics . Majorities in each country say access to the internet , mobile phones and social media has made people more informed about current events , and majorities in most countries believe social media have increased ordinary people 's ability to have a meaningful voice in the political process . Additionally , half or more in seven of these 11 countries say technology has made people more accepting of those who have different views than they do . But these perceived benefits are frequently accompanied by concerns about the limitations of technology as a tool for political action or information seeking . Even as many say social media have increased the influence of ordinary people in the political process , majorities in eight of these 11 countries feel these platforms have simultaneously increased the risk that people might be manipulated by domestic politicians . Around half or more in eight countries also think these platforms increase the risk that foreign powers might interfere in their country 's elections .
Bilateral issues , particularly the deepening of economic and commercial relations between the U.S. and Mexico , are expected to be among the key items on the agenda when Obama meets with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto this week . The survey finds that , overall , 70 % of Mexicans consider the deep economic ties between the two countries to be good for Mexico , down slightly from 76 % in 2009 , when Pew Research last asked this question .
Roughly a quarter of U.S. adults ( 24 % ) turn to social media posts from either the Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump campaigns as a way of keeping up with the election , according to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted June 7 to July 5 , 2016 . This exceeds the portions that rely on the candidates ' campaign websites ( 10 % ) or their emails ( 9 % ) . Overall , three-in-ten Americans get election news from at least one of these three online sources for news about the election .
Nearly a decade ago , as the U.S. began utilizing its considerable military and intelligence resources in the wake of Sept. 11 , global publics began to register their concerns about the reach of American power . The first Pew Global Attitudes survey , conducted in 2002 , found that less than a year after the attacks , goodwill toward the U.S. was already beginning to ebb in many nations , including some of America 's closest allies . For instance , the percentage of Germans with a favorable view of the U.S. fell from 78 % in 2000 to 60 % in 2002 , and in Britain it dropped from 83 % to 75 % . Immediately following the attacks of Sept. 11 , the `` war on terror '' received strong support in Western Europe , but as U.S. anti-terrorism efforts increasingly became associated with Iraq , Abu Ghraib , Guantanamo , and other unpopular aspects of American foreign policy , support plummeted . By 2007 , only about four-in-ten in France , Germany and Britain favored U.S.-led efforts to fight terrorism , and just 21 % held this view in Spain .
There is a strong relationship between the recent performance of the economy and views on the impact of trade on wages . The faster an economy grew on average between 2008 and 2013 , the greater likelihood that the public holds the view that trade boosts wages . It would appear that economic literacy has little to do with public views on the relationship between trade and prices , at least to the extent that an understanding of economic theory is related to educational attainment . In just 10 nations do better educated people buy the argument that trade lowers prices . Notably , in a number of emerging and developing countries – Pakistan , Peru , the Palestinian territories , India , Vietnam , Indonesia , El Salvador , Malaysia and Mexico – it is better educated people who are of the opinion that trade leads to higher prices .
But minorities are not yet the majority of any age group , even babies , in the bureau 's new estimates . Among the nation 's 3.9 million children younger than age 1 in 2013 , there were about 3,000 more non-Hispanic whites than minorities—essentially equal shares . In addition , the bureau published revised estimates today for 2011 and 2012 that also showed slightly more non-Hispanic whites than minorities in that youngest age group .
For the analysis – which covers the period from 1991 to 2010 and includes comparisons with changes in the United States – `` middle-class '' or `` middle-income '' adults in a country are those who live in households with disposable ( after-tax ) incomes ranging from two-thirds to double the country 's median disposable household income . Thus , the income it takes to be middle class varies across countries . Also , estimates in the new report will not match those in the Center 's previous reports , which were based on a household 's gross ( pretax ) income . Among Western Europe 's six largest economies , the shares of adults living in middle-income households increased in France , the Netherlands and the United Kingdom , but they shrank in Germany , Italy and Spain . From 1991 to 2010 , the middle-class share in the UK increased from 61 % to 67 % , but it decreased from 78 % to 72 % in Germany . Among the 11 Western European countries examined , the expansion in the UK was second only to the increase in Ireland , where the share increased from 60 % in 1991 to 69 % in 2010 . The decrease in Germany was the second largest after Finland , where the middle-class share fell from 82 % to 75 % over the same period . Overall , the middle-class share of the adult population fell in seven of the 11 Western European countries examined , mirroring the long-term shrinking of the middle class in the U.S . In most countries studied , decreasing shares of middle-income populations led to rising shares of adults in lower- and upper-income tiers . These shifts signal a sharpening of economic divisions among households in many Western European countries and the U.S . However , there is also a general improvement in the economic status of adults because the movement up the income ladder was greater than the movement downward in most countries from 1991 to 2010 . Compared with Western Europe , the U.S. middle class is smaller . Among the countries examined , the U.S. is the only country in which fewer than six-in-ten adults were in the middle class in 2010 . Meanwhile , compared with many Western European countries , greater shares of Americans were either lower income ( 26 % ) or upper income ( 15 % ) . Thus , U.S. households were more economically divided than households in the Western European countries analyzed . In the Western European countries , middle-class shares in 2010 ranged from 64 % in Spain to 80 % in Denmark and Norway . The share of adults who were lower income was lowest in the Netherlands ( 13 % ) and highest in Spain ( 24 % ) , and upper-income shares ranged from 6 % in Norway to 14 % in the UK .
A more comprehensive database maintained by USA Today lists 38 public mass killings since 2006 ; all but four were shootings . Since 2006 , the number of public mass killings each year has varied between 3 and 6 . The year 2012 , which saw both the Aurora , Colo. , and Newtown , Conn. , massacres , had by far the most total fatalities ( 63 ) .
In January , we found that about four-in-ten Americans ( 37 % ) had learned about the election in the past week from Facebook . Liberal Democrats ( 51 % ) were more likely to say this than both conservative ( 34 % ) and moderate or liberal Republicans ( 33 % ) . Liberal Democrats were also more likely to have learned from Facebook than conservative or moderate Democrats ( 28 % ) . More liberal Democrats use Facebook to begin with , which contributes to this partisan split . However , this difference persists among Facebook users . About half of conservative Republican Facebook users ( 51 % ) learned about the election on the platform , a smaller share than the 62 % of liberal Democratic Facebook users who said the same . Moderate or liberal Republican Facebook users ( 46 % ) and conservative or moderate Democratic Facebook users ( 43 % ) were also less likely to have learned about the election on the site .
Among the nearly three quarters of adults with phones who text , the average user sends and receives 10 texts a day , up from an average of 5 texts a day just 8 months earlier in September 2009 . Breaking it down by number of texts , half ( 51 % ) of adult texters send between 1 and 10 texts a day . Another 25 % of adults send 11 to 50 texts a day , and 10 % send between 50 and 200 texts a day . Just 4 % of adults send more than 200 text messages a day or more than 6,000 texts a month .
The generation gap in attitudes toward the Vietnam War did not erode over time . Gallup surveys conducted between 1965 and 1973 show that over time people of all ages increasingly expressed the view that U.S. involvement in Vietnam was a mistake , but the broadest criticism always came from older generations . In August of 1965 , people ages 50 and older were already twice as likely as those under 30 ( by a 29 % to 15 % margin ) to say sending troops to Vietnam was a mistake . Nearly eight years later , as U.S. forces were about to be completely withdrawn , majorities in all age groups saw Vietnam as a mistake , but younger people remained far less likely to take this view ( 53 % ) than those age 50 and older ( 69 % ) . Older Americans are more opposed to the use of military force than those in other age groups , but most believe that , in principle , the best way to ensure peace is through military strength rather than effective diplomacy . Americans under age 30 generally favor the opposite approach . Since 1987 , the belief in military strength as the best way to ensure peace has never fallen below 60 % among those ages 65 and older , while on average only 44 % of younger Americans subscribe to that opinion .
Today , half of Latinos ( 51 % ) express satisfaction with the direction of the country , a 13 percentage point increase over 2011 , when 38 % said the same . One-third ( 33 % ) now report that their finances are in `` excellent '' or `` good '' shape , up from one-quarter ( 24 % ) who said the same in 2011 . And looking forward , Latinos have grown more optimistic about their family 's finances in the next 12 months , with three-in-four ( 73 % ) expecting improvement , up from 67 % who said the same in 2011 .
There is considerable dissatisfaction with the way democracy is working in many countries . Across the nations polled , a median of 52 % are dissatisfied with how their democracy is working , while 44 % are satisfied . Greeks , Bulgarians and Nigerians register the highest levels of dissatisfaction . In general , people with lower incomes and those who do not support the ruling party are more likely to be dissatisfied with the functioning of democracy . Further , in many European countries , supporters of right-wing populist political parties are especially likely to hold this view . Supporters of Poland 's Law and Justice Party and Hungary 's Fidesz Party – two governing populist parties – show the opposite pattern . One way in which people are unhappy with the way democracy works is that they see political elites as out of touch . Across the nations surveyed , a median of 64 % disagree with the statement `` Most elected officials care what people like me think . '' This opinion is particularly widespread in Europe – a median of 69 % express this view . Further , 71 % share this view in the U.S . In contrast , fewer say this in the three Asian emerging economies included in the study : India ( 31 % ) , the Philippines ( 29 % ) and Indonesia ( 18 % ) . When asked whether the state is run for benefit of all the people , global publics are almost evenly divided : A median of 49 % say yes , while 50 % say no . But there are large differences across countries . For instance , 88 % in Slovakia believe the state is run for the benefit of all , but just 19 % hold this view in Greece . Overall , the share of the public saying the state is run to benefit everyone in society has declined in many nations since the Pew Research Center asked the question in 2002 . Three nations – Japan , the Czech Republic and Slovakia – have seen an increase in the share who say the state is run for the benefit of all since 2002 . Despite the frustration many people feel about political leaders and the way their political systems are working , they have not given up on democracy , and most still believe they can have a voice in the process . A median of 67 % agree that voting gives ordinary people some say about how the government runs things .
The Great Recession was hard on all American families . But even as the economic recovery has begun to mend asset prices , not all households have benefited alike , and wealth inequality has widened along racial and ethnic lines . The median wealth of white households was 13 times the wealth of black households and 10 times that of Hispanic households in 2013 , compared with eight and nine times the wealth in 2010 , respectively .
The teen birth rate in the United States is at a record low , dropping below 18 births per 1,000 girls and women ages 15 to 19 for the first time since the government began regularly collecting data on this group , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of newly released data from the National Center for Health Statistics . In 2018 , the birth rate among 15- to 19-year-old girls and women was less than half of what it had been in 2008 ( 41.5 births per 1,000 ) . Asians and Pacific Islanders led the way over this time , followed by Hispanics , with teen birth rate declines of 74 % and 65 % , respectively . Rates for white and black teens fell by more than 50 % over the past decade as well . Despite rapid declines in teen birth rates across all major racial and ethnic groups , disparities persist . In 2018 , the birth rate for Hispanic and black teens ages 15 to 19 was almost double the rate among white teens and more than five times as high as the rate among Asians and Pacific Islanders . Teen birth rates peaked at 96.3 per 1,000 in 1957 , the midst of the baby boom , after having risen dramatically following the end of World War II . But the composition of teen mothers has changed drastically . Back in 1960 , most teen mothers – an estimated 85 % – were married . Today , the majority of teen births ( 89 % ) are to unmarried mothers .
Globally , a median of just 40 % think media organizations should be able to publish information about sensitive issues related to national security , while 52 % believe it is acceptable for the government to suppress such information . But opinions vary widely across countries and regions . Latin Americans and Europeans tend to think the press should be allowed to publish sensitive national security information , while Middle Easterners , Asians and Africans mostly oppose this idea . On this issue , most Americans support government limitations on press freedom – 59 % say the government should be allowed to stop this type of publication .
The number of Americans who do not identify with any religion also has grown in recent years ; indeed , about one-fifth of the public overall – and a third of adults under age 30 – are religiously unaffiliated as of 2012 . Fully a third of U.S. adults say they do not consider themselves a `` religious person . '' And two-thirds of Americans – affiliated and unaffiliated alike – say religion is losing its influence in Americans ' lives . A survey conducted March 21 – April 8 asked Americans whether having `` more people who are not religious '' is a good thing , a bad thing , or does n't matter for American society . Many more say it is bad than good ( 48 % versus 11 % ) . But about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say it does not make much difference . Even among adults who do not identify with any religion , only about a quarter ( 24 % ) say the trend is good , while nearly as many say it is bad ( 19 % ) ; a majority ( 55 % ) of the unaffiliated say it does not make much difference for society . Read more
The latest Pew Research Center News IQ survey finds the American public reasonably well-informed about a number of basic facts pertaining to the current economic situation . Fully 83 % know that the government assistance to banks and other financial institutions is aimed at getting them to lend more money , not less money . Roughly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) correctly identify China as the foreign country holding the most U.S. government debt . A majority of Americans ( 58 % ) know that Timothy Geithner serves as the treasury secretary . And 51 % are aware that of the three major U.S. automakers , Ford is the one that has not received emergency loans from the government . Notably , more Americans know the current unemployment rate than the current level of the Dow Jones Industrial Average : 53 % correctly estimated the unemployment rate at about 8 % ( the rate was 8.1 % in February , but is projected to rise to 8.5 % in March ) . That compares with 40 % who correctly estimated the level of the Dow average at about 8,000 ; it ranged from 7,696 to 7,925 during the survey field period . This is slightly lower than awareness of the Dow average in the Pew Research Center 's December 2008 News IQ survey , when 45 % got this question right . Beyond the economy , the survey also addressed public awareness of some basic facts about U.S policy toward Afghanistan . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) are aware that Barack Obama has decided to increase the number of U.S. troops stationed in Afghanistan ( 21 % believe he decided to decrease troop levels and 7 % said he decided to make no changes ) . Roughly the same proportion ( 69 % ) responded correctly that Pakistan and Afghanistan share a border ; 15 % say the two countries do not share a border and 16 % offered no response .
One exception is human genetic modification , where religious observance is tied to public opinion . For example , 61 % of U.S. adults who attend worship services at least weekly , regardless of their particular religious tradition , say genetic modification to reduce a baby 's risk of serious diseases would be `` taking medical advances too far . '' By comparison , among adults who seldom or never attend worship services , 41 % say genetic modification for this purpose would be taking advances too far .
Nearly two-thirds of women ( 64 % ) favor stricter gun laws , compared with 55 % of men . Adults with at least a four-year college degree are more likely than those who have not completed to college to support stricter laws ( 72 % vs. 55 % ) .
In many countries , anti-Americanism is driven by disagreement with U.S. foreign policy . Perceptions of U.S. unilateralism , opposition to the war in Iraq , and reservations about the war on terrorism have fueled anti-American sentiments most dramatically in the Muslim world , although unpopular policies have hurt America 's image in other regions as well . Indians , however , largely approve of the way the U.S. conducts itself in the international arena . For example , Indians are less likely than others to believe the U.S. acts unilaterally on the world stage – 63 % of Indians say the U.S. takes into account the interests of other countries when making foreign policy decisions .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 30-Nov. 6 among 2,003 adults , finds that two-thirds ( 67 % ) favor requiring chain restaurants to list calorie counts on menus . But just 31 % support limits on the size of sugary soft drinks in restaurants and convenience stores – 67 % oppose this idea . More than half ( 55 % ) favor banning TV ads of unhealthy foods during children 's programming , but barely a third ( 35 % ) supports raising taxes on sugary soft drinks and unhealthy foods . On each of these policies , Democrats and women are more supportive than Republicans , independents and men .
Canada resettled more refugees than the United States in 2018 , the first time the U.S. did not lead the world on this measure since the adoption of the Refugee Act in 1980 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of new data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) . The sharp drop in U.S. refugee resettlement is in part due to the Trump administration 's decision to set a considerably lower cap on the number of refugees allowed into the U.S. than in previous years . In the U.S. , the number of refugees admitted for resettlement is set by the president . Until 2017 , the U.S. resettled more refugees each year than the rest of the world 's countries combined . Since 1980 , the U.S. has resettled millions more refugees than other countries – a total of about 3 million . The next two countries , Canada ( 658,000 ) and Australia ( 486,000 ) , have resettled fewer than a million each over the same period .
There were dramatic differences in coverage across media sectors last week . Cable TV news focused on the campaign almost to the exclusion of other top news stories . According to the Project for Excellence in Journalism 's ( PEJ ) News Coverage Index , national cable TV news outlets devoted 74 % of their coverage last week to the campaign and only 4 % to the Chinese earthquake . By contrast , network TV news and national newspapers split their coverage about equally between these two stories . Throughout the year , cable news has consistently devoted more coverage to the presidential campaign than have other news sources . And cable news coverage of the campaign has typically exceeded the public 's interest in the election . Last week represented one of the largest gaps between cable coverage of the campaign and public interest in the race . While cable networks devoted 74 % of their coverage to the campaign , only 20 % of the public listed the campaign as the single news story they followed most closely .
Overall , 41 % say they have quite a lot of confidence in the future of the U.S. , while another 30 % say they have some confidence . About three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say they have very little or no confidence at all in the future of the U.S .
The conflict over religion and homosexuality spills over into the views of the lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender population toward the Catholic Church . A recent Pew Research survey of the LGBT community found that nearly eight-in-ten LGBT adults ( 79 % ) perceive the Catholic Church as unfriendly toward them , 16 % say it is neutral and just 4 % say it is friendly .
Nearly three-in-ten Americans ( 29 % ) followed news about ISIS very closely . Comparable percentages say they very closely followed news about the recent measles outbreak and the debate over childhood vaccines ( 25 % ) and U.S. economic news ( 24 % ) . Just 12 % paid very close attention to the situation involving Russia and Ukraine .
Democrats will vote in a record 41 state and territorial primaries this year , four more than in 2008 , the last year there was a wide-open nomination contest . ( Guam calls its vote a caucus , but it operates more like a party-run primary . ) Republicans will hold a total of 39 primaries , the same as in 2008 and one fewer than in 2012 . Of the 41 states scheduled to hold at least one major-party primary ( up from 40 in 2008 ) , 35 will hold both Republican and Democratic primaries , though not necessarily on the same day . The current system , such as it is , has evolved over more than four decades . Up to the early 1970s , ordinary voters had relatively little input into the parties ' presidential nominations : The nominees were chosen at the big national conventions , and most convention delegates were chosen by caucuses , local conventions , state committees or other forums dominated by party insiders and political professionals . Candidates entered primaries largely to demonstrate their voter appeal , rather than win delegates : In 1968 , for example , only 15 states held primaries , which together sent about 40 % of the delegates to each party 's convention .
The number of naturalized-citizen voters reached 10.8 million in 2016 , up from 9.3 million in 2012 . In a year when immigration played a central role in the presidential campaign , turnout among naturalized-citizen voters ( those who were immigrants born in another country who have naturalized to become U.S. citizens ) was 54.3 % , up from 53.6 % in 2012 . Overall , the voter turnout rate among foreign-born citizens trailed that of U.S.-born voters , who had a 62.1 % turnout rate in 2016 . But among Asians and Hispanics – the nation 's two largest immigrant groups – the pattern was reversed . In 2016 , turnout among Asian naturalized citizens was 51.9 % , compared with 44.9 % for U.S.-born Asians . Among Hispanics , naturalized-citizen turnout was 53.4 % , higher than the 45.5 % turnout for U.S.-born Hispanics . The voter turnout rate increased among Millennials and those in Generation X. Millennials ( those ages 20 to 35 in 2016 ) had a 50.8 % voter turnout rate in 2016 , up from 46.4 % in 2012 when they were ages 18 to 31 . Their turnout rate increased across racial and ethnic groups , with the exception of black Millennials , 50.6 % of whom turned out in 2016 , compared with 55.0 % in 2012 . This increase in the Millennial voter turnout rate is not only because the generation has grown older ( older voters vote at higher rates than younger voters ) , but also due to a higher turnout rate among its youngest members : 45.2 % of 20- to 24-year-olds voted in 2016 , up from 43.6 % in 2012 . Generation X ( those ages 36 to 51 in 2016 ) turnout was 62.6 % , up from 61.0 % in 2012 . By contrast , the voter turnout rate among older generations was flat . Turnout for Baby Boomers ( those ages 52 to 70 ) was 68.7 % in 2016 , compared with 68.9 % in 2012 , while among the Silent and Greatest generations ( those ages 71 and older ) , it was 70.1 % in 2016 , compared with 71.8 % in 2012 .
NPR 's digital platforms continue to be an important part of its reach . The NPR One app , which offers a stream of individual shows and podcasts , had a similar or slightly higher average number of total completed sessions in 2018 as in 2017 , depending upon the device . ( A completed session is any instance in which a user starts and stops using the app . ) The NPR News app , which offers livestreams from individual stations and digital content , declined in completed sessions among Android and iPad users . ( Data for the NPR News iPhone app is unavailable for 2018 . )
Nearly two-thirds of the public says there are either very strong ( 27 % ) or strong conflicts 38 % ) between blacks and whites in America today . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say there are `` not very strong conflicts , '' and just 4 % say there are `` not conflicts . ''
With the election about 10 months away , a majority of registered voters ( 63 % ) say the issue of which party controls Congress will be a factor in their vote this year . This is a greater percentage than said this at early points in the 2014 , 2010 and 2006 midterm cycles . The share saying partisan control of Congress will matter in their vote is now about as high as it was in the closing weeks of those elections .
Following the Senate 's rejection of gun legislation last month , the public continues to overwhelmingly favor making private gun sales and sales at gun shows subject to background checks . Nearly three-quarters of Americans ( 73 % ) say that if the Senate bill is reintroduced , Congress should pass it .
With more than three months to go before Election Day , most voters already feel that there 's little left to learn about the presidential candidates . When it comes to Barack Obama , 90 % say they already pretty much know what they need to know about him ; just 8 % say they need to learn more . A substantial majority ( 69 % ) also says they already mostly know what they need to know about Mitt Romney . Only about a quarter ( 28 % ) say they need to learn more to get a clear impression of Romney . Combining these two questions , fully two-thirds of voters say they already know as much as they need to about both presidential candidates .
For example , 35 % of national political tweeters say they have contacted an elected official within the last year , compared with 14 % of nonpolitical tweeters and 21 % of infrequent tweeters . Political tweeters are also more likely than the other two groups to say they have attended a political rally or protest or contributed money to a candidate running for office in the last year .
About three-in-ten Americans ( 29 % ) say they are very confident in their own abilities to check the accuracy of a news story , while about a quarter ( 24 % ) express little to no confidence in their ability . The greatest portion ( 46 % ) are somewhat confident in their own ability .
In the wake of the election , Republicans are feeling more optimistic about their party 's future . By contrast , Democrats ' optimism about the Democratic Party 's future has declined . And Democrats are more likely than Republicans to say their party has done too little to address the concerns of a number of groups , including women , minorities and residents of rural areas . Today , 79 % of Republicans say they are very or somewhat optimistic about the future of the Republican Party . In early November , on the eve of the election , 61 % of Republicans expressed optimism about their party 's future . Democrats ' optimism about their party 's future has declined by a comparable margin over the same period – though a majority ( 61 % ) continues to be optimistic . Before the election , 77 % of Democrats were optimistic about the party 's future , which is almost identical to the share of Republicans who are upbeat about their party 's now .
Among Europeans , there is a wide range of opinion on whether the government can prevent statements that are offensive to minorities . Seven-in-ten Germans say this should be the case ( where there are clear laws against hate speech ) , as do 62 % of Italians and half of Poles . The French are divided , with 48 % saying that the government should have the ability to prevent speech that is offensive to minority groups , while 51 % say people should be able to say these things publicly . In contrast , the balance of opinion in the UK and Spain is to allow people to say statements that might offend minorities .
Outlets have several options for reaching their consumers , including apps , newsletters , podcasts and aggregation platforms like Apple News or Flipboard . The use of those different tools varies across digital-native news outlets . In a Pew Research Center audit of 37 outlets conducted in mid-2019 , just under half of these highest-traffic digital-native news outlets ( 46 % ) have apps for at least one of the two main mobile platforms ( iOS and Android ) . This is down from the 2018 figure of 57 % , which drew from a somewhat different group of sites . Those outlets that do have apps tend to offer them for both platforms : About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) have apps for both platforms , while 5 % have just an iOS app ( down from 23 % among the 2018 group of sites ) . None only offer an Android app .
More Europeans believe immigrants want to be distinct rather than adopt their new countries ' customs . A median of 38 % say migrants are willing to adopt their customs and way of life while 51 % believe immigrants want to remain distinct from the broader society .
As of 2019 , public support for legal abortion remains as high as it has been in two decades of polling . Currently , 61 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 38 % say it should be illegal in all or most cases .
Republicans have widened their lead in leaned party identification among white evangelical Protestants : About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of white evangelicals lean Republican , while just 22 % lean Democratic . The GOP also holds a substantial advantage among Mormons . Fully 70 % of Mormons lean Republican , while just 22 % lean Democratic .
Among people with partners , many more bisexual adults are married or in a relationship with someone of the opposite sex than are with someone of the same sex – 88 % say this . This is likely due at least in part to the fact that LGB adults make up a small share of the overall adult population , so the pool of potential same-sex partners is much smaller than the pool of opposite-sex partners . Meanwhile , all the respondents in the survey who identified as straight were in opposite-sex relationships , and nearly all ( 94 % ) of those who identified as gay or lesbian were in same-sex relationships .
The public places a great deal of personal importance on the right to vote . When asked about the importance of five rights and freedoms , the right to vote ranks about as high as any item on the list . Overall , 91 % of Americans say that the right to vote is essential to their sense of freedom . Only 7 % say it is important but not essential , and just 1 % says it is not important . A comparable share ( 92 % ) considers freedom of speech to be essential to their own sense of freedom . Large majorities also say the right to privacy ( 87 % ) and freedom of religion ( 85 % ) are essential to them . Views are more mixed when it comes to the right to own guns : 48 % say this is essential , while 33 % say it is important but not essential and 19 % say it is not important .
Congressional leaders on both sides of the aisle continue to receive negative assessments from the public . Today , just a third ( 33 % ) approves of the Republican congressional leadership ; about the same number ( 35 % ) approves of the Democratic leadership . While these evaluations have changed little in recent months , approval ratings for Democratic leaders are now far lower than they were in early 2009 . Ratings for Republican leaders have shown less change over this period .
Pluralities also say news organizations are giving the right amount of coverage to the situation in Afghanistan ( 42 % ) and news about the federal budget deficit and national debt ( 44 % ) . Relatively few see either story receiving too much coverage ( 12 % Afghanistan , 11 % federal budget deficit and national debt . )
Six origin groups – Chinese , Indian , Filipino , Vietnamese , Korean and Japanese – accounted for 85 % of all Asian Americans as of 2015 . These groups together largely shape the overall demographic characteristics of Asian Americans . The remaining 13 origin groups each made up 2 % or less of the nation 's Asian population . These groups have a variety of characteristics that can differ greatly from the largest groups .
Despite often sizable subgroup differences , Asian Americans are distinctive as a whole , especially when compared with all U.S. adults , whom they exceed not just in the share with a college degree ( 49 % vs. 28 % ) , but also in median annual household income ( $ 66,000 versus $ 49,800 ) .
Pakistanis are also more optimistic about their country 's economic future than they were a year ago . Today , a 36 % -plurality believes the economy will improve over the next 12 months , a 10 point increase since last year . Just 17 % think the economy will worsen , down from 60 % in 2011 , which was the peak of pessimistic attitudes . Less than a quarter ( 21 % ) say the economic situation will remain the same .
In emerging markets , a median of 70 % backs foreigners building new plants in their country , but just 44 % say foreigners buying local firms is a good thing , a 26 point difference . The emerging market BRICS economies –Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa– are generally supportive of foreign investment with two exceptions : only 38 % of Russians and 39 % of Chinese say foreign acquisitions are good for their country . Notably , Indians back both forms of foreign investment ( 68 % greenfield , 56 % foreign M & A ) , despite the fact that their government has long limited foreign investors ' access to the Indian economy . In advanced economies , nearly three-quarters ( 74 % ) support greenfield foreign investment , but only about a third ( 31 % ) say foreign M & A is good for their country , a 43 point spread in public opinion . The Germans and Japanese are among the most opposed to foreigners investing in their countries despite the fact that Germany and Japan are two of the largest suppliers of outward investment flows . Overwhelming majorities of Germans ( 79 % ) and Japanese ( 76 % ) say foreign takeovers of national companies are bad for the local economy . And roughly a third of the publics in those countries are also opposed to greenfield foreign investment ( Germany 33 % and Japan 34 % ) .
As Indians head into election season , more than half ( 54 % ) are satisfied with the way democracy is working in their country . However , satisfaction has declined 25 percentage points from 2017 , when 79 % voiced approval . Men are more likely than women to give Indian democracy a thumbs-up , though one-in-five women decline to offer an opinion . Indians with a secondary education are more likely than those with less than a secondary education to be satisfied with their democracy , though one-in-six ( 17 % ) less-educated Indians offer no opinion . Such satisfaction is a partisan affair : 75 % of BJP supporters , but only 42 % of Congress adherents , are satisfied with how Indian democracy functions .
Overall , 47 % of smartphone job seekers say their phone is `` very important '' in helping them look for job and career resources , and an additional 37 % describe it as `` somewhat important . '' But despite the overall significance of smartphones to these users , many of them have encountered challenges navigating the job search process on a mobile device . Nearly half of smartphone job seekers have had problems accessing job-related content because it was n't displaying properly on their phone or had difficulty reading the text in a job posting because it was not designed for a mobile device . And more than one-in-three have had trouble entering a large amount of text needed for a job application or had difficulty submitting the files or other supporting documents needed to apply for a job .
Several Asian countries have greater confidence in Trump than in Chinese President Xi Jinping . While Trump faces low global confidence overall , greater shares of people in the Philippines , Vietnam and Japan are confident in Trump than in China 's leader . ( Within the region , Filipinos had the highest confidence in Xi , at 53 % , while the Japanese had the lowest at 11 % . ) In contrast , people in South Korea were more than twice as likely to have confidence in Xi than Trump regarding world affairs ( 38 % versus 17 % ) .
In previous Center surveys , Americans of all kinds have linked not having broadband to a number of disadvantages – including difficulties finding job information or less access to government services . Despite these perceived challenges , non-adopters show little interest in becoming home broadband users in the future . Six-in-ten non-broadband users say they have never had high-speed internet service at home in the past , while one-third indicate that they had previously subscribed to these services . And when asked if they are interested in having home broadband in the future , most non-adopters are unenthusiastic about the prospect . Fully 80 % of non-broadband users say they would not be interested in having broadband at home , while 18 % think this is something they would consider in the future . These sentiments are on par with those found in the Center 's 2015 survey .
When asked to reflect on specific aspects of their lives , women are inwardly focused , showing more concern about issues that affect them and their families . Men are more concerned with problems outside the home . For example , men in more countries mentioned the actions of the government and work-related difficulties when asked an open-ended question about the most important problem facing their family . Women in more countries volunteer health problems and difficulties with children and education . As might be expected , economic hardships are the most frequently cited concerns by both sexes .
As it turns out , there are early hints that congressional productivity may be on an upswing , after two successive Congresses that enacted the fewest- and second-fewest laws in at least four decades . According to the Library of Congress ' THOMAS database , Congress passed 49 measures before its summer break ( though some of them were n't formally signed into law by President Obama until afterward ) . We categorize 35 of those acts as `` substantive '' by our deliberately generous criteria – that is , any legislation other than renaming buildings , giving out medals , commemorating historic events and other purely ceremonial acts . By contrast , the 112th Congress had passed just 28 pieces of legislation – 19 of them substantive – by the time its August 2011 recess rolled around , matching the level of the 104th Congress in 1995 . The 113th Congress was slightly more productive , passing 31 laws ( 24 of them substantive ) by its first August recess , which is formally known as a district ( or state ) work period . Lawmakers do n't always get off to such a slow start . In 2007 , Congress had passed 81 laws ( though 35 of them were ceremonial ) ; four years earlier , 79 laws had been passed by the time Congress went on its August break . But early-session activity does n't always indicate how productive a Congress will be over its entire two-year term : The 106th Congress , which passed 580 laws during its 1999 - 2000 term , had passed just 56 by its August 1999 recess .
A median of 58 % of adults across 33 surveyed countries have a favorable opinion of the EU , while just 27 % hold an unfavorable view . In the 19 non-EU countries surveyed , attitudes are also positive , with a median of 51 % expressing a favorable view and 25 % reporting an unfavorable opinion ( though a significant proportion of respondents in some countries offer no opinion ) .
Fewer than half of Democrats ( 46 % ) were even somewhat confident in an accurate and fair election , compared with 75 % of Republicans . And Democrats were deeply concerned over whether all citizens would be able to vote : Just 43 % of Democrats said they were very or somewhat confident all citizens who want to vote would be able to do so , while about twice as many Republicans ( 87 % ) were confident all citizens would be able to vote if they wanted to .
Majorities in most of the nations polled are concerned about extremism . And in most Middle Eastern countries , concern about extremism has increased in the past year . In Lebanon , which shares a long border with conflict-ridden Syria , 92 % of the public is worried about Islamic extremism , up 11 points from the already high figure of 81 % in 2013 . Lebanese Christians ( 95 % ) , Shia Muslims ( 95 % ) and Sunni Muslims ( 86 % ) all share high levels of concern .
As economic and security concerns have become less prominent , the domestic issues of reducing health care costs ( 69 % top priority ) and improving the educational system ( 68 % ) now rank among the top tier of public priorities . About two-thirds also say that taking steps to make the Social Security ( 67 % ) and Medicare ( 67 % ) systems financially sound are top priorities for the country .
Ideological consistency . Currently , 23 % of Democrats have liberal views across nearly all items on a 10-item political values scale , while another 33 % have mostly liberal views . Among Republicans , comparable shares have either consistently conservative ( 20 % ) or mostly conservative ( 33 % ) attitudes .
In the first months of the Trump administration , the top countries of origin for refugees have been the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( 3,235 ) , followed by Burma ( Myanmar ) ( 2,470 ) , Iraq ( 1,923 ) , Somalia ( 1,879 ) , Syria ( 1,779 ) and Ukraine ( 1,603 ) . These six countries have made up two-thirds ( 67 % ) of all refugees entering the U.S. since Jan. 21 , 2017 . Of these , three are majority-Muslim origin countries ( Iraq , Somalia and Syria ) .
Work-family balance is a challenge for many working fathers . Just like mothers , many of today 's fathers find it challenging to balance work and family life . About half of working dads ( 52 % ) said in 2015 that it is very or somewhat difficult to do so , a slightly smaller share than the 60 % of working mothers who said the same . And about three-in-ten working dads ( 29 % ) said they `` always feel rushed , '' as did 37 % of working mothers .
More broadly , about half ( 51 % ) of Americans are at least somewhat confident in Trump 's ability to negotiate favorable trade agreements with other countries . Public views of Trump in this domain are more positive than in many other areas . ( However , global trade ranks among the lowest concerns for the public 's policy priorities for 2019 . )
Public support for trade and multinational corporations and the lack of enthusiasm for protesters does not mean that people necessarily reject critics ' concerns . Majorities , in most cases strong majorities , in 34 of 44 nations thought the availability of good paying jobs had gotten worse in the last five years . And substantial majorities–82 % in France , 67 % in the United States , 63 % in Mexico–thought the gap between the rich and the poor had worsened . But , unlike trade 's critics , the public did not blame globalization for these problems . People attributed such difficulties to domestic factors .
Currently , 41 % of the public agrees with Trump on `` all or nearly all '' or many of the issues facing the country , while 57 % agree with him on just a few issues or virtually none . In August , just 33 % said they agreed with Trump on many or all issues .
Though they tend to get less attention than gun-related murders , suicides have long accounted for the majority of U.S. gun deaths . In 2017 , six-in-ten gun-related deaths in the U.S. were suicides ( 23,854 ) , while 37 % were murders ( 14,542 ) , according to the CDC . The remainder were unintentional ( 486 ) , involved law enforcement ( 553 ) or had undetermined circumstances ( 338 ) .
More than a quarter ( 27 % ) say they very closely followed news about candidates for the 2012 presidential elections , up from 19 % the previous week and a high point for the year so far . With Texas Gov . Rick Perry stepping up his campaign for the GOP nomination and President Obama making a campaign-style bus trip , election news made up 13 % of coverage , which was little changed from 15 % the previous week , when Michele Bachmann won the Republican straw poll in Iowa and Perry officially entered the race .
With refugees continuing to stream into Europe , Turks are insistent that fewer of them should be crossing their borders . Two-thirds say that Turkey should allow fewer refugees from Syria and Iraq into their country . Only 8 % are willing to accept more refugees , while 13 % would like to keep the flow about the same as it is now .
Their views also closely align with those of Hispanic users . For example , about half or more of Black and Hispanic adults who use social media say that these platforms are very or somewhat important to them for finding others who share their views and getting involved with political or social issues that are important to them , compared with about four-in-ten White users , according to June 2020 data . Similarly , about half of Black and Hispanic users say these sites are personally important to them when it comes to giving them a venue to express their political opinions , compared with smaller shares of White users ( 34 % ) who say the same .
Overall , roughly one-in-five parents with homebound schoolchildren say it is very or somewhat likely their children will not be able complete their schoolwork because they do not have access to a computer at home ( 21 % ) or have to use public Wi-Fi to finish their schoolwork because there is not a reliable internet connection at home ( 22 % ) . And about three-in-ten parents ( 29 % ) report that it is at least somewhat likely their children will have to do their schoolwork on a cellphone .
Along with their concerns , U.S. Muslims also report a host of positive feelings about life in the U.S . Even as most say that Americans do not view Islam as mainstream , for example , majorities of U.S. Muslims ( 60 % ) say they have `` a lot '' in common with most Americans , and that they can get ahead through hard work ( 70 % ) – a belief that is a key component of the so-called American dream . U.S. Muslims also appear to be more socially integrated with non-Muslims than they were a decade ago . About one-third ( 36 % ) of U.S. Muslims say that all or most of their friends are Muslim , down from 47 % who said that in 2007 . Many report positive interactions with non-Muslims by another measure , as well : 49 % say that someone expressed support for them because they are Muslim in the 12 months prior to the survey , up from 32 % who said this in 2007 .
Overall , 72 % of teens ages 13 to 17 play video games on a computer , game console or portable device . Fully 84 % of boys play video games , significantly higher than the 59 % of girls who play games . Playing video games is not necessarily a solitary activity ; teens frequently play video games with others . Teen gamers play games with others in person ( 83 % ) and online ( 75 % ) , and they play games with friends they know in person ( 89 % ) and friends they know only online ( 54 % ) . They also play online with others who are not friends ( 52 % ) . With so much game-playing with other people , video gameplay , particularly over online networks , is an important activity through which boys form and maintain friendships with others :
Pew Research Center 's new national political survey finds that just 38 % of registered voters who support Trump are very confident their vote will be accurately counted . Another 31 % say they are somewhat confident , while 30 % have little or no confidence their vote will be counted accurately . The gap between the two camps is about as large among those who express confidence in an accurate vote count nationally . Nearly half of Clinton supporters ( 49 % ) and just 11 % of Trump supporters are highly confident that votes across the country will be counted accurately .
The survey finds that public 's most closely followed story , for the second week in a row , is news about the child sex abuse scandal at Penn State University ( 27 % most closely ) ; 15 % tracked news about the economy most closely and 13 % cited news about the presidential candidates as their top story . Just 3 % say they followed news about the super committee most closely . The deficit panel also drew relatively little news coverage , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . News about the super committee accounted for 4 % of all coverage last week , much less than the Penn State scandal ( 15 % ) , the 2012 elections ( 12 % ) or the Occupy Wall Street protests ( 13 % ) .
While many Americans and Germans name China as the most important partner , negative attitudes toward the Asian superpower have increased in both countries over the past year . The two publics have also become more likely to prioritize U.S.-German ties over relations with China . In the September 2020 survey , 55 % of Americans prefer to have a close relationship with Germany rather than China ( 35 % ) . This is a significant change from just April of this year , when 44 % wanted a close relationship with Germany and 43 % wanted the same with China . A similar shift is seen in Germany . In April , nearly equal numbers wanted to have a close relationship with China ( 36 % ) as said the U.S. ( 37 % ) . But now , a majority of Germans say they prefer the U.S. ( 55 % ) over China ( 27 % ) , similar to sentiment in late 2019 , before the pandemic .
While the public followed the debate about Obama 's jobs legislation more closely than any other news , they also closely followed news about new government estimates on the number of Americans living in poverty . Currently , an estimated 15.1 % of the population – 46 million people – live in poverty , the highest share since 1993 . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they followed news about the debate in Washington over jobs legislation very closely , about the same as the 28 % that say they followed news about the new poverty numbers that closely . The number following the debate in Washington is comparable to the 28 % that said they followed Obama 's speech about jobs to a joint session of Congress one week earlier . Three-in-ten women ( 31 % ) say they followed the news about poverty numbers very closely , compared with 24 % of men . Democrats and Republicans express similar interest in this story ( 34 % and 28 % very closely , respectively ) . About a quarter of Americans say they followed news about the 2012 candidates or the fluctuations in the stock market very closely ( 24 % each ) . Partisans express comparable levels of interest in both stories . Interest in election news has been relatively steady since late August . Fewer than two-in-ten ( 16 % ) each say they followed news about the European debt crisis or last week 's attack on the U.S. Embassy in Afghanistan very closely . News out of Afghanistan accounted for 6 % of coverage .
The Japanese public sees cybersecurity , ISIS and climate change as the biggest threats to their country . About seven-in-ten Japanese ( 71 % ) say cyberattacks from other countries are a major threat to Japan . Roughly the same share of the public ( 69 % ) believes the Islamic militant group in Iraq and Syria known as ISIS represents a major threat . And a similar number ( 68 % ) cite global climate change as a major problem . Notably , it is older Japanese ( 75 % of those ages 50 and older ) , not younger ones ( 59 % ages 18 to 34 ) , who are the most worried about global warming . Despite widespread antipathy toward Beijing , a smaller share of the public ( 63 % ) names China 's emergence as a world power as a major threat to Japan . And despite a largely favorable view of the United States , roughly half the Japanese public ( 52 % ) also names U.S. power and influence as a major international challenge for Japan . Young Japanese ( 63 % ) , those ages 18 to 34 , are more likely than those ages 50 and older ( 47 % ) to see the U.S. as a threat .
Homeowners ' interest in solar panels reflects both financial and environmental concerns . Nine-in-ten homeowners said they have installed or considered home solar panels in order to save money on utility bills and 87 % say they did so to help the environment . Fewer among this group ( 60 % ) say getting a solar tax investment credit is a reason they installed or considered installing solar power at home . A federal tax credit for solar projects , which was scheduled to expire at the end of this year , has since been extended five years for residential solar projects .
Some world leaders begin their tenures with high favorability ratings – only to see their popularity fall over time . But , in the U.S. , Pope Francis remains as popular as ever , with seven-in-ten Americans saying their opinion of the pontiff is `` very '' or `` mostly '' favorable , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . When Francis began his papacy in March of 2013 , 57 % of Americans held a favorable view of him , while 14 % held an unfavorable view and 29 % could n't give him a rating . Now , seven-in-ten Americans express a favorable view of Francis , while 19 % express an unfavorable opinion and just 11 % say they do n't know enough to be able to rate the pontiff . Not surprisingly , Pope Francis is even more popular among U.S. Catholics than he is among the public as a whole , with eight-in-ten or more American Catholics routinely giving the pope favorable ratings . Currently , 87 % of Catholics express a favorable view of the pope .
Even before the administration 's announcement , refugee resettlement in the U.S. had dropped to historic lows during Donald Trump 's presidency , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of State Department data . As a result , the U.S. is no longer the world 's top country for refugee admissions . It had previously led the world on this measure for decades , admitting more refugees each year than all other countries combined .
Millennials are projected to surpass Baby Boomers in 2019 as the nation 's largest living adult generation , according to our analysis of U.S. Census Bureau population projections . Millennials , whom we define as those ages 20 to 35 in 2016 , now number 71 million , approaching the 74 million Baby Boomers ( ages 52 to 70 ) . And Generation X ( ages 36 to 51 in 2016 ) is projected to pass the Boomers in population by 2028 . The Millennial generation continues to grow as young immigrants expand its ranks . Boomers – whose generation was defined by the boom in U.S. births following World War II – are older and shrinking as a share of the population as the number of deaths exceeds the number of older immigrants arriving in the country . Note : Item No . 3 in this post was updated on April 13 , 2018 , to reflect the Center 's revised definition of the Millennial generation and the updated year in which Millennials will be the largest generation .
These laws are largely in line with Western European attitudes on the issue . Most non-Muslim adults in Western Europe favor at least some restrictions on the religious clothing of Muslim women who live in their country , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of 15 countries in the region . The prevailing view ( a regional median of 50 % ) is that Muslim women should be allowed to wear religious clothing as long as it does not cover their face . Fewer ( regional median of 23 % ) say Muslim women should not be allowed to wear any religious clothing . And a regional median of 25 % take the more permissive view that Muslim women should be allowed to wear any religious clothing they choose . In the United Kingdom , for example , 53 % of non-Muslim adults say Muslim women in the UK should be allowed to wear religious clothing as long as it does not cover their face , while 19 % favor restricting all religious clothing . Roughly a quarter ( 27 % ) support allowing Muslim women to wear the religious clothing of their choosing .
In the months leading up to the shutdown , there was a large increase in the number of people in family units apprehended at the border . Monthly family apprehensions subsequently hit new highs each month from September through December , according to data going back to 2012 . There were nearly 17,000 family member apprehensions in September , more than 23,000 in October , about 25,000 in November and a record of more than 27,000 in December .
Most supporters of both Clinton ( 62 % ) and Trump ( 59 % ) have only been contacted on behalf of the candidate they plan to vote for . In part this reflects the effectiveness of modern campaigns in targeting their mobilization efforts to those who support their candidate . About a third of Trump supporters ( 32 % ) and a quarter of Clinton backers ( 27 % ) have been reached by efforts on behalf of both campaigns , while very few have only been contacted on behalf of the candidate they do not back .
Public opinion about legalizing marijuana , while little changed in the past few years , has undergone a dramatic long-term shift . A new survey finds that 53 % favor the legal use of marijuana , while 44 % are opposed . As recently as 2006 , just 32 % supported marijuana legalization , while nearly twice as many ( 60 % ) were opposed . Millennials ( currently 18 - 34 ) have been in the forefront of this change : 68 % favor legalizing marijuana use , by far the highest percentage of any age cohort . But across all generations –except for the Silent Generation ( ages 70 - 87 ) – support for legalization has risen sharply over the past decade . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted March 25 - 29 among 1,500 adults , finds that supporters of legalizing the use of marijuana are far more likely than opponents to say they have changed their mind on this issue .
Americans are divided about whether they see Islam as more likely than other religions to encourage violence among its believers : 46 % say it is more likely , while 45 % say it is not more likely . The share of the public saying that Islam is more likely than other religions to encourage violence has dropped four percentage points since a historical high of 50 % in September 2014 . For much of the past decade , public views on this measure have been closely divided . Independents remain split over this question : 45 % say Islam is more likely to encourage violence than other religions , while the same proportion ( 45 % ) say it is not .
On the other hand , 47 % of U.S. adults say the federal government should have a major role in advancing space exploration , making it the only area measured that does not have majority support for major government involvement . This stands in contrast to other issues such as curtailing terrorism , responding to natural disasters and ensuring food and medicine safety , for which a vast majority of Americans think government should be heavily involved .
Between its inception in January 2017 and its final day on Jan. 3 , the GOP-led 115th Congress enacted 442 public laws , the most since the 110th Congress ( 2007 - 09 ) . Of those laws , 69 % were substantive ( as judged by our deliberately generous criteria ) – not much different from the 71 % substantive share achieved by the 114th Congress , in which the Republican-controlled House and Senate faced off against Democratic President Barack Obama . ( The 114th Congress passed 329 laws in total . ) In our regular assessments of Congress ' legislative productivity , we 've cast a wide net regarding what makes a law `` substantive . '' Basically , anything that makes a change in federal law ( however tiny ) or authorizes the spending of taxpayer dollars ( however few ) makes the cut . Besides the measures referred to above on building-renamings , we count laws as `` ceremonial '' if they award medals , designate special days , authorize commemorative coins or otherwise memorialize historic events . ( We exclude entirely `` private laws , '' which typically exempt a single person from a single provision of general law . ) Looking back over the past 30 years , the 101st Congress ( 1989 - 1991 ) passed the most laws in total ( 650 ) and had the lowest percentage of substantive laws ( 63 % ) . That 's because it , like many Congresses before , passed dozens of laws designating special observances – National Tap Dance Day , National Quarter Horse Week , National Library Card Sign-Up Month and the like . That practice diminished over the next few years and was largely ended by the 104th Congress in the mid-1990s . Since then , only one Congress has chalked up a lower share of substantive legislation than the just-ended 115th . That was the 110th , held after Democrats retook the House and Senate in the 2006 midterms during Republican George W. Bush 's final two years as president . Only 64 % of the laws enacted by that Congress were substantive , by our reckoning .
There also is widespread disappointment among Muslims that Iraq did not put up more of a fight against the U.S. and its allies . Overwhelming majorities in Morocco ( 93 % ) , Jordan ( 91 % ) , Lebanon ( 82 % ) , Turkey ( 82 % ) , Indonesia ( 82 % ) , and the Palestinian Authority ( 81 % ) say they are disappointed the Iraqi military put up so little resistance . Many others around the world share that view , including people in South Korea ( 58 % ) , Brazil ( 50 % ) and Russia ( 45 % ) .
More than half of married U.S. adults ( 56 % ) – both with and without children – say sharing household chores is `` very important '' to a successful marriage , according to the most recent report from Pew Research Center 's Religious Landscape Study . That ranks behind having shared interests ( 64 % ) and a satisfying sexual relationship ( 61 % ) , but ahead of having children ( 43 % ) and having adequate income ( 42 % ) .
Republicans and Democrats also had sizable differences in opinions of how the Supreme Court should base its rulings . Among the public overall , a majority of Americans said the court should base its rulings on its understanding of what the Constitution means in current times ( 55 % ) ; fewer said it should base its rulings on what the Constitution `` meant as originally written '' ( 43 % ) . There were sizable differences within each partisan coalition on this question : 50 % of moderate or liberal Republicans said the high court should base rulings on the Constitution in context of current times , while fewer than half as many conservative Republicans said the same ( 21 % ) . Among Democrats , liberals ( 88 % ) were more likely than conservatives and moderates to say the court should base rulings more on current context.White adults were more likely than Black and Hispanic adults to say the Supreme Court should base its rulings on its understanding of what the Constitution means as originally written ; about half of White adults said this ( 48 % ) compared with smaller shares of Black ( 33 % ) and Hispanic ( 35 % ) adults .
China 's economic rise , coupled with the challenges that have plagued the U.S. economy since the onset of the Great Recession , have led to shifting views about the economic balance of power in the world . Looking at 20 countries surveyed in spring 2008 – before the depths of the financial crisis – and again this year , the median percentage naming the U.S. as the world 's leading economic power has dropped from 49 % six years ago to 40 % today . During the same period , the percentage naming China has risen from 19 % to 31 % . More broadly , many around the world believe that at some point China will surpass the U.S. as the world 's leading superpower . In 2008 , global public opinion in these 20 nations was divided on this question , with 41 % saying China will eventually replace or has already replaced the U.S. as the dominant superpower , and 39 % saying China will never supplant the U.S. Today , 50 % say China has replaced or will replace the U.S. , while just 32 % believe this will never happen .
Mobile phone users say their devices help them stay in touch with those who live far away . In every country surveyed , about nine-in-ten or more say their phones have helped them in this regard . At the same time , a median of 53 % of adults across the 11 countries surveyed say the increasing use of mobile phones has had a good influence on family cohesion , compared with a median of 20 % who say it has had a bad influence . People are similarly positive about the impact of the internet on family cohesion . Even so , a notable share of adults express concerns about the impact of mobile phones on interpersonal communication . For instance , a median of 48 % of adults say people should be very concerned about people losing the ability to communicate face-to-face when using their mobile phones . And in focus groups conducted as part of the study , some participants highlighted examples of their children texting from the room next door rather than talking to their family .
Expectations also vary by self-reported familiarity with gene editing . Those who have heard a lot about gene editing to change a baby 's genetic characteristics are more inclined to anticipate positive outcomes from its widespread use . Some 36 % of this group thinks it is very likely that the widespread availability of gene editing would pave the way for new medical advances that are beneficial to society , compared with about half as many of those who have heard a little or nothing about gene editing ( 16 % ) . However , those most familiar with gene editing are more likely than those with no familiarity to also anticipate downsides . About two-thirds of those who have heard a lot about gene editing ( 64 % ) say it is very likely that widespread availability of gene editing will increase inequality because the technology will primarily be available only for the wealthy , compared with 53 % of those who have heard nothing about using gene editing to change a baby 's genetic characteristics . And , 65 % of those who have heard a lot about gene editing think it 's very likely that others will use these techniques in morally unacceptable ways , while 54 % of those who have heard a little and 52 % of those who have heard nothing about gene editing say this .
The presidential campaign once again was the most heavily covered story of the week , accounting for 38 % of all news coverage . For the public , however , the rising price of gas , which emerged as a prominent issue in the campaign , was the top news story . More than six-in-ten ( 63 % ) say they followed news about gas prices very closely and 30 % cited it as the story they followed most closely last week . The public also closely tracked news about the national economy : 43 % say the followed economic news very closely with 20 % citing it as the story they followed most closely last week . The economy was the second most covered story , accounting for 10 % of news coverage .
When it comes to policy about scientific issues , a majority of U.S adults ( 55 % ) say that public opinion should not play an important role `` because these issues are too complex for the average person to understand , '' while 43 % think the public should help guide such decisions . The balance of opinion on this issue has shifted since 2019 , when a Center survey found the majority ( 54 % ) said public opinion should play an important role in science policy decisions .
Nine months after passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act , views of the sweeping tax law are little changed . More say they disapprove ( 46 % ) rather than approve ( 36 % ) of the law ; about two-in-ten adults ( 18 % ) do not offer an opinion either way .
To get a sense of the kinds of jobs teens are working and how that 's changed , we looked at Bureau of Labor Statistics data from July 2000 through July 2014 . ( Pre-2000 data are n't comparable . ) One trend jumped out immediately : a dropoff in teens working retail . Last July , just over 1.2 million teens worked in the retail sector , compared with more than 2 million in July 2000 – a 40.6 % drop . Retail accounted for 24 % of teen summer jobs in 2000 but only 21.7 % last year . ( Among all workers , by comparison , retail employment was about 1 % higher last July than it was in July 2000 . ) Instead , teens are more likely to be working at hotels , restaurants and similar businesses . Nearly a third ( 32.2 % ) of employed teens last summer worked in the `` accommodation and food services '' sector , compared with 22.6 % in July 2000 . ( The actual number in this sector fell a bit , from 1.9 million to 1.8 million , but they now make up a bigger share of a smaller total . )
But opinions vary by religion , ethnicity and education : Hispanics , white evangelical Protestants and those who never attended college are more likely to say children are better off with a parent at home . College-educated women are among the most likely to say children are just as well off if their parents work outside the home .
In the News Interest Index survey conducted Dec. 16 - 19 , Americans say the two stories they followed most closely last week were the final approval of major tax legislation in Washington and the cold winter weather that struck many parts of the country . Late last week , Congress passed and President Obama signed legislation that includes a temporary extension of Bush-era tax cuts , aid to the unemployed and several other tax measures intended to boost the U.S. economy . About two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they followed this news more closely than any other top story ; 37 % say they followed news about the tax deal very closely . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed news about cold winter weather most closely , while 43 % say they followed this news very closely . About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say they paid very close attention to news about the economy ; 14 % say they followed economic news more closely than any other topic . The media also focused on the economy and the tax legislation last week . The finale of the debate over tax cuts made up 17 % of the newshole , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . More general economic news accounted for an additional 9 % of coverage . News about harsh winter weather conditions made up 3 % of the newshole . Nearly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say they very closely followed reports about a federal judge in Virginia ruling that parts of the new health care law are unconstitutional , including a provision mandating all Americans carry health insurance . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say this was the news they followed most closely . Far more Republicans ( 42 % ) than Democrats or independents ( 24 % each ) followed this story very closely . The situation in Iraq was followed very closely by 19 % of the public and a similar number ( 17 % ) say they very closely followed news about the administration 's review of its Afghan war strategy . The situation in Afghanistan and the review of the war 's progress accounted for 5 % of the newshole , while Iraq made up 1 % of coverage .
A new Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults finds that the social media landscape in early 2018 is defined by a mix of long-standing trends and newly emerging narratives . As has been the case since the Center began surveying about the use of different social media in 2012 , Facebook remains the primary platform for most Americans . Roughly two-thirds of U.S. adults ( 68 % ) now report that they are Facebook users , and roughly three-quarters of those users access Facebook on a daily basis . With the exception of those 65 and older , a majority of Americans across a wide range of demographic groups now use Facebook .
The chart below shows the variety of ways that internet users have tried to avoid being observed online .
The successful capture last week of Mosul , Iraq 's second largest city , by the extremist organization Islamic State in Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) – and the group 's continued push toward the Iraqi capital , Baghdad – seemed to confirm widespread fears in the Middle East that violence in Syria would spill over into neighboring states . Middle East worries about spreading violence and a possible triumph by extremists in Syria have been evident in Pew Research surveys the past two years . A 2013 poll found that roughly three-quarters or more of the public in Lebanon , Tunisia , Jordan , Israel , Egypt and the Palestinian territories were concerned that the ongoing Syrian conflict would destabilize nearby countries . ( The Pew Research Center did not poll in Iraq . ) Compared with the other countries we surveyed last spring , those in Turkey were somewhat less concerned about the regional impact of Syria 's civil war , although a 55 % -majority still worried that the violence would spread . Even more Turks ( 62 % ) fretted that the conflict would cross into their own country . The ISIS 's capture of 80 Turkish nationals during last week 's seizure of Mosul underscored just how much a threat spreading Syrian violence could be for Turkey and its citizens , even if far from Turkey 's borders .
`` Dominican '' is the identity term used most often . When asked in a 2013 Pew Research Center survey what terms they use to describe themselves most often , two-thirds of Dominican adults ( 66 % ) say they most often use the term `` Dominican . '' Some 16 % say they most often describe themselves as `` American . '' Roughly the same share ( 17 % ) most often use the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' to describe their identity . By comparison , 54 % of all U.S. Hispanics say they prefer their ancestor 's Hispanic origin term to describe their identity , 23 % say they describe themselves most often as `` American '' and two-in-ten use the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' to describe their identity . In regards to the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino , '' six-in-ten Dominicans have no preference for either term . Among those who have a preference , more prefer the term `` Hispanic '' ( 29 % of all Dominicans ) , while 11 % prefer the term `` Latino . '' By comparison , half of all Hispanic adults have no preference for either term , and among those who do have a preference , Hispanic is favored over Latino 2-to-1 . When asked in the 2013 Pew Research survey whether they thought of themselves as a typical American or very different from a typical American , about half of Dominican adults ( 53 % ) see themselves as a typical American , while four-in-ten think of themselves as very different from a typical American . Hispanic adults are more likely to see themselves as a typical American ( 49 % ) than very different from a typical American ( 44 % ) .
Last July , unfavorable opinions of the Supreme Court rose to their highest level in 25 years , following the Court 's ruling upholding most of the 2010 health care law . A December survey showed that views of the court had changed little since that point . In the most recent survey , 53 % said they had a favorable view of the Supreme Court , while 36 % had an unfavorable view . In July 37 % said they had an unfavorable opinion of the court .
One area of convergence is the broad support in both the U.S. and Germany for more cooperation with France and Japan . And similar majorities in the U.S. and Germany want to cooperate more with China . However , a greater share of Americans want to cooperate more with the UK ( 76 % ) than of Germans who say the same ( 51 % ) .
Nearly half ( 49 % ) say they are very or somewhat interested in news out of Russia . There is less interest in news about other former Soviet states that are less consistent players on the global stage . About a third say they are very or somewhat interested in news from Ukraine ( 36 % ) or Poland ( 34 % ) . And among African countries , about half ( 52 % ) say they are very or somewhat interested in what happens in Sudan , while about four-in-ten say they are this interested in news out of South Africa ( 44 % ) , Kenya ( 41 % ) , Nigeria ( 40 % ) and Somalia ( 39 % ) . About nine-in-ten Republicans say they are very or somewhat interested in news about what happens in Iraq ( 90 % ) or Afghanistan ( 88 % ) . Three-quarters of Democrats say the same ( 74 % for Iraq ; 75 % for Afghanistan ) . On the other hand , Republicans and Democrats are equally interested in news about Iran ( 71 % very/somewhat interested ) .
Putin 's 2015 decision to intervene in the Syrian conflict was a momentous change in Russia 's foreign policy . Today , the prevailing view among Russians is that their country should stay the course in Syria , keeping Russia 's military involvement at its current level ( 46 % ) . Among those who would like to see a change in Russia 's stance , roughly three times as many support decreasing the level of Russia 's involvement ( 34 % ) , as opposed to increasing it ( 11 % ) . When asked about the purpose of their country 's military actions in Syria , majorities say limiting casualties ( 72 % ) and defeating extremist groups ( 64 % ) should be priorities , compared with just a quarter who say the same about the Kremlin 's apparent goal of keeping Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in power .
Overall , whites are less likely than blacks to say that blacks face at least some discrimination ( 77 % vs. 91 % ) . Among whites , there is a wide partisan gap in views of discrimination against blacks ( 91 % of white Democrats and Democratic leaners say there is at least some discrimination against blacks in our society , compared with 66 % of white Republicans ) . A similar pattern is seen for Hispanics . Whites overall are less likely to say that Hispanics face discrimination ( 73 % of whites say this , compared with 86 % of Hispanics ) . However , 90 % of white Democrats say that Hispanics face at least some discrimination compared with 59 % of white Republicans . When asked about discrimination against whites , whites are more likely than blacks or Hispanics to say that there is at least some discrimination against whites in the U.S. ( 44 % of whites say this compared to 29 % of blacks and 33 % of Hispanics ) . Yet while 60 % of white Republicans say society discriminates against whites , only 24 % of white Democrats share this view .
Last week the National Center for Health Statistics released new government estimates of the number of Americans who can now be reached only by a cell phone — an estimated 14.5 % of all adults , and significantly larger percentages in certain population subgroups such as young people and Hispanics . The growing number of wireless-only households poses a serious challenge to survey research , much of which relies upon landline surveys to reach respondents . The Pew Research Center has been tracking and studying the cell phone challenge for several years , and reported its latest research on the issue at the annual meeting of the American Association for Public Opinion Research ( AAPOR ) , held in New Orleans May 15 - 18 .
Compared with other Christian groups analyzed in the data , Catholics were about as likely as White Protestants who are not evangelical ( 60 % ) and Black Protestants ( 64 % ) to support legal abortion , and much more likely than White evangelical Protestants ( 20 % ) to do so . Among Americans who are religiously unaffiliated – those who say they are atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' – the vast majority ( 83 % ) said abortion should be legal in all or most cases .
Most Democrats think the federal government is doing too little to reduce the effects of global climate change , while opinions among Republicans are divided by ideology , generation and gender . Overall , two-thirds of Americans say the federal government is doing too little to address climate change , including 90 % of Democrats and 39 % of Republicans . But Republicans differ widely in their views on this issue by ideology . About two-thirds of moderate or liberal Republicans ( 65 % ) say the federal government is doing too little to reduce the effects of climate change , compared with roughly one-quarter of conservative Republicans ( 24 % ) .
Online harassment has become a fairly common feature of online life , both for teens and adults . Roughly six-in-ten U.S. teens ( 59 % ) say they have been bullied or harassed online , with offensive name-calling being the most common type of harassment they have encountered , according to a 2018 survey of those ages 13 to 17 . A similar share of teens ( 63 % ) view online harassment as a major problem for people their age . Many adults also report being the target of some form of abusive behavior online . Some 41 % of adults have experienced some form of online harassment , as measured in a 2017 survey .
However , this level of confidence does not extend across all civic activities . It seems to plunge as soon as politics enter the picture . U.S. adults render a split verdict on whether they can count on fellow Americans to accept election results regardless of who wins : 53 % express `` a fair amount '' or `` a great deal '' of confidence that others will accept the results , while 47 % say they have `` not too much '' or `` no confidence at all '' that others will accept the election outcome . Americans also are split on whether they can rely on others to reconsider their views after learning new information ( 49 % have at least some confidence , 50 % little or none ) , stay informed about important issues and events ( 49 % vs. 51 % ) and respect the rights of people who are not like them ( 48 % vs. 52 % ) . Moreover , in some areas Americans do not expect others to act in civically helpful ways . Some 58 % of adults are not confident that others can hold civil conversations with people who have different views , and 57 % are not confident others will cast informed votes in elections .
Digital video consumption is growing and digital news video consumption is growing with it . Almost two-thirds of U.S. adults now watch videos online and more than half of those ( 36 % ) watch news videos . This is up from 40 % of U.S. adults who watched or downloaded any kind of video in 2007 and 26 % who watched or downloaded news videos .
College benefits go beyond earnings : In addition to earning more , college-educated Millennials also have lower unemployment and poverty rates than their less-educated peers . They 're also more likely to be married and less likely to be living in their parent 's home .
A majority of Americans ( 63 % ) say that climate change is affecting their local community a great deal or some . Fewer ( 37 % ) say climate change is impacting their own community not too much or not at all . The share who see at least some local impact from climate change is about the same as it was last fall ( 62 % ) .
Overall , global publics tend to express positive views about China . A median of 47 % across the 38 nations polled have a favorable opinion of China , while 37 % have an unfavorable one . Global ratings for the U.S. , which have declined sharply in the first year of the Trump administration , look very similar : A median of 49 % see the U.S. in a positive light , while 39 % offer an unfavorable view . ( For more on global views of the U.S. , see `` U.S . Image Suffers as Publics Around World Question Trump 's Leadership . '' )
While conflicts between Democrats and Republicans are perceived as strong by the vast majority of Americans , partisans generally agree on this point . Nine-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 90 % ) say there are strong or very strong partisan conflicts , as do roughly as many Republicans and Republican leaners ( 87 % ) . Democrats are substantially more likely than Republicans to see strong conflicts between blacks and whites and between the rich and the poor . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of Democrats and Democratic leaners see strong or very strong conflicts between blacks and whites , compared with slightly more than half ( 54 % ) of Republicans and Republican leaners . And while about seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 69 % ) see strong or very strong conflicts between the rich and the poor , fewer than half of Republicans and GOP leaners ( 44 % ) agree .
The Japanese public stands out as the most unfavorable toward the UN among all countries surveyed in 2020 . A majority ( 55 % ) express a negative sentiment with the organization , up 20 percentage points from 2019 and the highest share since this question was first asked in 2006 . In contrast , just 29 % express a favorable view of the UN , a drop of 18 points from the 47 % who said the same in 2019 . Favorable views of the UN in Japan reached their peak in 2011 . That year , 61 % rated the organization positively in the aftermath of the Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami , a period during which the UN provided disaster relief to Japan .
Public interest in news about economic conditions remained high last week amid reports about federal legislation to uplift the housing market and official projections of a half-trillion-dollar national budget deficit . About half of all Americans ( 47 % ) paid very close attention to news about the state of the U.S. economy and another 34 % were following this news fairly closely . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) said it was the news they followed most closely for the week , making the economy the public 's top story . Actual news coverage of the economy was the second most heavily covered story last week . The national news media devoted 5 % of all coverage to the topic . For the third straight week , the audience for campaign news totaled three-in-ten Americans who were following the presidential race very closely . While not the most closely followed news item of the week , the campaign was the public 's number two story , with 27 % of Americans citing the campaign as the story they were following more closely than any other . A far greater share of the national newshole was devoted to the presidential campaign last week than to any other major news story . More than one-quarter of all news ( 26 % ) focused on the campaign . Roughly one-in-four Americans ( 27 % ) followed news about the Iraq war very closely and 11 % listed this as their most closely followed story for the week . News about an earthquake that struck the Los Angeles area attracted the very close attention of 17 % of the public . Predictably , residents of the West Coast followed the story more closely than residents of other regions of the country . The earthquake , which caused little damage last week , received 2 % of all news coverage .
Starting as early as 2010 , more Asian immigrants than Hispanic immigrants have arrived annually in the U.S. , a reversal of historical trends . In the early 2000s , the number of newly arrived Hispanic immigrants greatly outnumbered newly arrived Asian immigrants . Around the time of the Great Recession , Latin American immigration declined sharply , especially from Mexico .
Across the five Asia-Pacific countries surveyed , cyberattacks , climate change and ISIS are all mentioned as top concerns by at least one country . In Japan , it is cyberattacks , while in South Korea and Australia , it is climate change . ISIS is named as the top threat in the Philippines and Indonesia , nations where Islamic extremist violence has occurred frequently over the past 15 years . Asia-Pacific publics also express concern about North Korea 's nuclear program and China 's power and influence . In South Korea , more rate China 's power as a major threat ( 82 % ) than the DPRK 's nuclear program ( 67 % ) . Since 2013 , concern about North Korea has fallen substantially in South Korea , from 82 % in 2013 to 67 % in 2018 . Over that time , perceptions of China as a threat have grown in four of the nations surveyed in the region , particularly in Australia ( up 20 points ) and Indonesia ( up 16 ) .
The perceived requirements of being a true Australian notwithstanding , the prevailing view ( 49 % ) among the Australian public is that growing cultural diversity makes their country a better place to live . By comparison , a majority of Americans ( 56 % ) agree that having an increasing number of people from many different races , ethnic groups and nationalities is a positive for the U.S . In Europe , however , a median of just 22 % across 10 European countries surveyed say that growing diversity makes their countries a better place to live .
This Sunday 's presidential election in Ukraine may do little to unite a nation riven by ongoing separatist movements in the country 's east , and haunted by the March secession of Crimea . Our April survey found that businessman Petro Poroshenko , the leading candidate – according to a local poll conducted earlier this month – is much more popular in the country 's west than in the east , where doubts are widespread not only about the candidates but the fairness of the election itself . Our poll , conducted before the list of presidential candidates had been finalized , found that Poroshenko was the most liked among four contenders tested . Overall , a modest majority of Ukrainians ( 54 % ) gave Poroshenko a favorable rating . By comparison , only three-in-ten offered a positive view of the country 's first female prime minister , Yulia Tymoshenko ( 30 % ) , and nationalist politician Oleg Tyagnibok ( 30 % ) . Even fewer ( 15 % ) were favorable toward Mykhaylo Dobkin , former governor of Ukraine 's eastern Kharkiv region .
New OECD composite leading economic indicators suggest that Chinese and Brazilians face disappointment with their economies in the months ahead , while many Europeans , Japanese and Americans may be pleasantly surprised . In March and April 2013 , the Pew Research Center surveyed 39 nations , asking people whether they thought their economies would improve over the next 12 months . Roughly eight-in-ten Chinese ( 80 % ) and Brazilians ( 79 % ) were upbeat about the trajectory of their economies . But the OECD expects both these economies to slow in the months ahead . For the Chinese , whose economy grew by 7.8 % last year , this slowdown could prove a rude awakening . For Brazilians , whose economy grew by only 0.9 % in 2012 , slowing growth could prove more troubling . Europeans , Japanese and Americans have more to look forward to . In spring 2013 , just 27 % of Germans and 22 % of the British expected an economic pickup in the short run . But growth is returning to levels Germany enjoyed in the past and is firming up in Britain , according to the OECD . Four-in-ten Japanese ( 40 % ) thought better days were ahead and the country 's leading economic indicators confirm that optimism . Even more Americans ( 44 % ) saw their economy improving over the next 12 months and growth is firming up as they expected .
Far fewer refugees are entering Europe in 2016 than in 2015 . In summer 2016 , an average of about 100 migrants from Syria , Afghanistan , Iraq and other countries have landed each day on Greece 's shores , down from the thousands who arrived daily last summer . Meanwhile , migration into Italy this year continues at a similar pace to 2015 . An average of about 500 refugees , mostly from sub-Saharan Africa , arrived daily between January and August of both 2015 and 2016 .
Traditional political activities are most common among the well-educated and financially well-off , regardless of whether they take place online or offline . On social networking sites , income-related differences are more modest — but civic engagement in these spaces is still most prevalent among those with higher educational levels .
Overall , 67 % approve of Hillary Clinton 's job performance as secretary of state , while just 25 % disapprove . Fully 91 % of Democrats approve of the way she handled her job as secretary , as do a majority ( 64 % ) of independents . About half of Republicans ( 53 % ) disapprove of her job performance as secretary of state while 39 % approve .
Foreign-led mergers and acquisitions of German companies are decidedly unpopular . Just 19 % of Germans say such foreign investment helps Germany , 73 % say it hurts . Meanwhile , Americans are not that much more enthusiastic about foreigners buying U.S. firms . Just 31 % back European takeovers , 56 % oppose them . Moreover , women ( 61 % ) are more opposed than men ( 51 % ) , and those without a college degree ( 59 % ) are more likely than those with a college degree ( 49 % ) to say such investment hurts .
English proficiency is rising among Hispanics ages 5 and older . In 2015 , 69 % of Hispanics said they speak only English at home or indicate that they speak English `` very well '' , up from 59 % who said the same in 1980 . Most of this growth has been driven by U.S.-born Hispanics , whose English proficiency share has grown from 71.9 % in 1980 to 89.7 % in 2015 . By contrast , English proficiency among foreign-born Hispanics has seen little change over the same period . In 2015 , just 34.6 % of foreign-born Hispanics reported that they speak only English at home or speak English `` very well '' , a slight increase from 30.7 % in 1980 .
How stay-at-home and working moms spend their time : Mothers who are not working for pay spend more time , on average , on child care and housework than do working mothers , but they also have more time for leisure and sleep .
Economists Stefania Albanesi and Ayşegül Şahin of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York analyzed U.S. Census data extending back four decades . They found the labor force participation gap between men and women has closed dramatically since 1970 when only 43 % of women but 80 % of men 16 years and older were employed or looking for work .
Shifting attitudes toward China are colored , in part , by the context of the continued trade frictions and tariffs between the United States and China . Today , just over half of Americans ( 53 % ) believe current economic ties between the U.S. and China are bad . Fewer ( 41 % ) think economic relations between the two nations are good , with just 2 % of American adults saying ties are very good . Partisanship is associated with views of the U.S.-China economic relationship : While 49 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents see current ties as good , around one-third ( 36 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents share this view . And , despite having more favorable views of China , younger Americans ( ages 18 to 29 ) are about as likely as those 50 and older to have negative views of current economic relations with China ( 58 % and 53 % , respectively , say ties are bad ) .
Among Clinton supporters , about one-in-five ( 19 % ) said life is worse , compared with nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) who said it is better . Meanwhile , Trump supporters were considerably more likely than Clinton voters ( 68 % versus 30 % ) to say that the future of the next generation of Americans will be worse compared with life today .
The correlation coefficients shown in the accompanying table measure the degree to which unemployment and presidential approval and disapproval ratings varied together over the past 30 years ( coefficient of 1 or -1 indicating a total positive or negative correspondence between two variables , a zero coefficient indicating no relationship ) . The data reveal an extremely high correlation between Ronald Reagan 's approval ratings and unemployment rates during his first term — approval falling and disapproval rising as joblessness rose — but not during his second term . The relationships also hold for George H.W . Bush , although not nearly as strongly as for Reagan in his first term .
The new survey finds that partisans are starkly divided in their perceptions of how seriously the Trump administration is trying to prevent Russian interference in future U.S. elections . A large majority of Republicans ( 81 % ) say they are very or somewhat confident the administration is making a serious effort to prevent future Russian interference , with 49 % saying they are very confident – an 11-point increase since March 2018 . Only 17 % say they are not too or not at all confident . In contrast , 83 % of Democrats say they are not too or not at all confident that the administration is making a serious effort to prevent Russian interference . Only 15 % say they are very or somewhat confident .
They are also less accepting of homosexuality and more negative toward minority groups . For instance , 59 % of Swedes with a positive opinion of the right-wing populist Sweden Democrats express an unfavorable opinion of Muslims in their country ; among those with a negative view of the Sweden Democrats , just 17 % see Muslims negatively . How people feel about right-wing populist parties also shapes attitudes toward Muslims in Germany , the Czech Republic , the Netherlands , France , Italy , Spain , the UK and Hungary .
Africans continue to say their countries face a variety of challenges . Despite the optimism about the economic future , people still have many economic concerns – for instance , a median of 88 % say the lack of employment opportunities is a very big problem . And when asked about six potential areas for improvement , beyond strictly economic issues , many identify health care and education as top priorities . Health care is the top choice in eight of nine countries , while education tops the list in South Africa . In addition to domestic concerns , many in the region also are worried about global challenges , especially climate change . A median of 59 % say they are very concerned about global climate change . Among the seven global threats tested on the survey , climate change tops the list in seven of the nine African nations polled . Only Latin Americans express a similar level of concern about this issue .
Majorities of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 59 % ) and Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 75 % ) say political insults are never fair game . However , as was the case two years ago during the presidential campaign , Republicans ( 40 % ) are more likely than Democrats ( 24 % ) to say personally insulting political opponents is `` sometimes fair game . ''
The share of stay-at-home moms in poverty has doubled since 1970 : While more stay-at-home moms are in poverty — 34 % in 2012 , compared with 14 % in 1970 — those with working husbands generally are better off than those without . But stay-at-home moms with working husbands are not as well off financially as married mothers who work outside the home . Home by choice or necessity ? Married stay-at-home mothers with working husbands are more likely than single or cohabiting mothers to say caring for family is their primary reason for being home . Single and cohabiting stay-at-home mothers are more likely than married stay-at-home mothers with working husbands to say they are ill or disabled , unable to find a job , or enrolled in school . Overall , a growing share of stay-at-home mothers say they are home because they can not find a job : 6 % in 2012 , versus 1 % in 2000 .
Among the issues tested , rising prices is the top concern . Just over three-quarters ( 76 % ) say inflation is a very big problem . Seven-in-ten or more also name crime , unemployment , corrupt political leaders , drug cartel-related violence and corrupt police officers as very big issues . Half or more say poor-quality schools , health care and people leaving Mexico for jobs in other countries are very big concerns . However , less than half name the gap between rich and poor , immigrants traveling through Mexico from Central America to the U.S. , or traffic as top worries .
Though they tend not to get much attention from Beltway insiders , state legislatures are key players in redrawing congressional-district boundaries . In most states , it 's the state legislature that takes the lead role in drawing new district maps , according to the National Conference of State Legislatures . ( Commissions do this job in 13 states and have advisory or backup roles in seven others , although the Supreme Court is currently weighing the legality of the commissions ' task . ) Given the inherently political nature of redistricting , which party controls the legislature can be crucial to a state 's final maps and thus , control of Congress .
Perceptions of personal threat from the outbreak – whether physical or financial – are also associated with higher levels of psychological distress . Among those who see the outbreak as a major threat to their personal health , about one-third ( 32 % ) fall into the high distress category ; among those who say it is not a threat to their health , just 16 % do . And 30 % who see the outbreak as a major threat to their personal financial situation fall into the high distress category , compared with 18 % among those who say it is not a threat .
In some countries included in this survey , we also asked about domestic racial or ethnic divides . This dynamic may be a feature of everyday life for many in countries like Kenya , where ethnic fractionalization is high , but perhaps less salient in places like Vietnam , where the population is more ethnically homogenous . Results of the survey indicate that across the 11 emerging economies , the regularity with which people of different races or ethnicities interact with one another can vary widely .
People can be politically active on social media in many ways . This survey asked Americans about four different types of activities that they may have engaged in on these platforms . Overall , about one-third of social media users ( 36 % ) say they have used sites like Facebook , Twitter and others in the past month to post a picture to show their support for a cause , look up information about rallies or protests happening in their area ( 35 % ) or encourage others to take action on issues they regard as important ( 32 % ) . A smaller share ( 18 % ) reports using a hashtag related to a political or social issue on social media during this time . But in certain activities , Black users stand out : 48 % of Black social media users say they have posted a picture on social media to show their support for a cause in the past month , compared with 37 % of Hispanic users and 33 % of white users . Black adults who use social media ( 45 % ) are also more likely than their Hispanic ( 33 % ) or white ( 30 % ) counterparts to say that in the past month they 've taken to social media to encourage others to take action on issues that are important to them . Social media engagement for causes or issues also varies by age . Just over half of social media users ages 18 to 29 ( 54 % ) say they have used these sites in the past month to look for information about rallies or protests happening in their area , compared with 36 % of those ages 30 to 49 , 26 % of those 50 to 64 and 20 % of those 65 and older . Social media users under the age of 30 are also more likely than those 30 and older to say they have used a hashtag related to a political or social issue and encouraged others to take action on issues that they see as important , while there are smaller age gaps when it comes to posting a picture to show support for a cause .
Only about four-in-ten Americans ( 38 % ) say they have a favorable view of the Republican Party , while a 54 % majority express an unfavorable view of the GOP . The public remains divided in views of the Democratic Party : 47 % have a favorable opinion and 46 % have an unfavorable view . Favorable ratings for both parties have changed very little over the past year .
In recent months , mask-wearing has become a partisan issue . This partisan divide is also found in the behaviors of the general public : Democrats and those who lean Democratic are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say they personally wore a mask all or most of the time in the past month ( 76 % vs. 53 % ) . Even after controlling for differences in the COVID-19 health impact in the communities where people live , Democrats are more likely to say they personally wear a mask all or most of the time .
Major economic news also drew heavy coverage and widespread interest last week . In all , the national news media devoted 19 % of its coverage to the economy ; 10 % of the coverage was focused on Bush 's economic stimulus plan and 5 % was focused on major fluctuations in the stock market . For its part , the public was somewhat more interested in stock market news than in the stimulus plan . Overall , 29 % of Americans followed stock market news very closely and 14 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . By comparison , 24 % say they followed news about the stimulus package very closely , and 11 % listed this as their most closely followed story . Interest in the Iraq war fell to an all-time low last week with 23 % of Americans following news about Iraq very closely . Only 6 % of the public listed the situation in Iraq as the story they were following most closely making it the fifth most closely followed story of the week .
In both countries , confidence in Trump and feelings toward the U.S. are related to the sentiment of words chosen . Those with no confidence in Trump are at least twice as likely as those who express confidence in him to use a negative word to describe the U.S. ( 60 % vs. 22 % in Canada , 33 % vs. 15 % in Mexico ) . The same goes for views of the U.S. : Those with an unfavorable view of the U.S. are at least twice as those with a favorable view to use a negative word to describe the U.S. ( 70 % vs. 30 % in Canada , 44 % vs. 13 % in Mexico ) .
Donald Trump receives generally negative ratings from the public across a range of personal traits and characteristics . Just 24 % of Americans say Trump is even-tempered , while nearly three times as many ( 70 % ) say that description does not apply to him . Fewer than half say that Trump is a strong leader ( 43 % ) , well-informed ( 38 % ) , empathetic ( 36 % ) or trustworthy ( 34 % ) .
Among Americans , there are sharp divisions on this policy . About half ( 51 % ) oppose the initial tariffs , while 44 % support the measures . But almost three-quarters of Republicans ( 72 % ) support Trump 's EU tariffs while about seven-in-ten Democrats ( 71 % ) oppose them . In Germany , about eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) support the retaliatory tariffs . There are minimal differences by party in Germany on this question , as most agree with the policy across the political spectrum .
Views of the U.S. remain relatively positive , despite declining somewhat since the end of the Obama era . Across 24 countries that have been surveyed consistently since 2015 and 2016 , a median of 53 % of adults have a favorable view of the U.S. , slightly below the 64 % who had a positive view at the end of the Obama administration . People in these countries are now more likely to have a favorable view of the U.S. than to have confidence in the president – a reversal of the pattern at the end of the Obama administration . Still , the share of people who have confidence in Trump has edged higher in recent years .
Despite the emergence of several major international stories – including an election in war-ravaged Afghanistan and the release of the so-called Lockerbie bomber – the public continued to be focused on domestic news , particularly the ongoing debate over health care reform . Fully 45 % say they followed health care developments more closely than any other story last week . That 's about the same level as the previous week ( 46 % most closely ) and twice the percentage that say they followed reports about the condition of the economy most closely ( 21 % ) . Nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) say they very closely followed news about Scotland 's release of a terminally-ill Libyan imprisoned for his role in the bombing of a flight that exploded over Lockerbie in 1988 ; 6 % say this was the story they followed most closely . Another quarter say they very closely followed news about the current situation and events in Iraq ; 4 % say this was the story they followed most closely . A smaller share ( 14 % ) say they followed the presidential election in Afghanistan very closely ; 3 % say this was the story they followed most closely .
Trump 's overall job approval has changed little since the beginning of his presidency . Currently , 55 % of Americans disapprove of his job as president , while 40 % approve . While men are evenly split in their views of Trump 's job performance ( 47 % approve , 47 % disapprove ) , women are far more likely to disapprove ( 63 % ) than approve ( 32 % ) . Large majorities of blacks ( 84 % ) disapprove of the way Trump is handling his job ; whites continue to be divided over Trump 's job performance ( 50 % approve , 46 % disapprove ) . By contrast , black Protestants and the religiously unaffiliated overwhelmingly disapprove of how Trump is handling his job as president ( 87 % and 67 % , respectively ) . White mainline Protestants are divided ( 49 % approve , 47 % disapprove ) .
More than half in every country surveyed have little or no confidence in Cuban President Raul Castro 's ability to handle international affairs . Overall , a median of 62 % across the six countries say this , while only 21 % have confidence in the Cuban leader . Lack of confidence is most pronounced in Venezuela ( 73 % no confidence ) and Brazil ( 70 % ) . In Venezuela , those on the ideological right are far more likely to have no confidence in Castro ( 89 % ) compared with those on the left ( 40 % no confidence vs. 57 % confidence ) . But in no country surveyed do more than a third of the public have confidence in the younger Castro brother .
59 % of social-media-using parents indicate that they have come across useful information specifically about parenting in the last 30 days while looking at other social media content . Mothers are particularly likely to encounter helpful parenting information – 66 % have done so in the last 30 days , compared with 48 % of fathers . 42 % of these parents have received social or emotional support from their online networks about a parenting issue in the last 30 days . This includes 50 % of mothers , compared with 28 % of fathers on social media . 31 % of parents who use social media have posed parenting questions to their online networks in the last 30 days . Mothers and fathers are equally likely to do so .
Further , Clinton and Trump supporters have vastly different beliefs about the causes of climate change . A large majority of Clinton supporters ( 70 % ) say the Earth is warming mostly because of human activity , but just 22 % of Trump supporters share that view . Nearly half of Trump supporters ( 47 % ) say the Earth is warming because of natural patterns , and three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say there is no solid evidence the Earth is warming .
While the issue of gun control remains divisive , there are clear areas of agreement when it comes to a number of gun policy proposals . Fully 85 % of Americans favor making private gun sales and sales at gun shows subject to background checks , with comparable support from Republicans , Democrats and independents . Similarly , 80 % support laws to prevent mentally ill people from purchasing guns , with broad support across party lines .
It 's easy to see why the company made a big bet on mobile : A 2014 Pew Research Center survey found that 68 % of smartphone owners at least occasionally use their device to follow breaking news events . And our analysis of comScore data from January 2015 found that 39 of the top 50 news websites had more traffic to their sites and associated applications coming from mobile devices than from desktop computers . It 's also worth noting just how quickly smartphones have flooded the market : In September of 2012 , just before Circa launched , 45 % of U.S. adults owned one . By the fall of 2014 , that share was up to 64 % .
Among the 124,811 cellphone numbers dialed in the 2014 Pew Research Center survey studied here , roughly six-in-ten ( 62 % ) were flagged as active , nearly one-third ( 32 % ) were flagged as inactive and the remainder ( 6 % ) had unknown status .
Barack Obama 's overall job approval ratings have held relatively steady over the past four months : currently , 51 % of Americans say they approve of his job performance ; this figure has fluctuated between 51 % and 55 % since July . The share who disapprove – currently 36 % – has ranged between 33 % and 37 % over the same time period . ( For a detailed breakout of Obama 's overall job approval , see the tables at the end of this report . )
China 's navy and air force are the largest in Asia , and defense spending has risen rapidly over the past decade . Against this backdrop , a large majority of Americans ( 81 % ) say China 's growing military power is a bad thing for the U.S. Only about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say it 's a good thing . Even among those with favorable views of China , roughly seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) view its expanding military power negatively . Nationwide , the sense that China 's growing military would be beneficial for the U.S. has remained largely unchanged over the past decade . But even while many Americans are concerned about the potential impact of China 's military growth , they are somewhat sanguine about how China 's economic growth affects the United States . Half of Americans think China 's growing economy is a good thing for the U.S. while 41 % say it 's a bad thing . When first asked in 2005 , similar proportions felt the same ( 49 % good , 40 % bad ) . Such optimism was not always the case , though . Those saying China 's economic achievements were good for America dropped to less than 40 % in 2008 and 2011 . However , in 2014 these attitudes rebounded slightly .
Millennials make up 44 % of Latino eligible voters and are the main driver of growth in the Latino electorate . From 2012 to 2016 , 3.2 million young U.S.-born Latinos came of age and turned 18 , accounting for 80 % of the increase in Latino eligible voters during this time .
The public is generally positive about the outcome of last week 's midterm elections . Yet most Americans think that neither Democratic congressional leaders nor Donald Trump will be successful in getting their policies passed into law during the next two years . The new national survey from Pew Research Center , conducted Nov. 7 - 13 among 9,451 adults , finds that 61 % say Democratic leaders in Congress will be unsuccessful in getting their programs passed into law – but about as many ( 63 % ) say Trump will be unsuccessful in getting his programs enacted . While the Democratic Party gained a majority in the House , but not the Senate , in the Nov. 6 elections , Democrats are divided over the party 's legislative prospects : 49 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say Democratic leaders will be successful , while an identical share says they wo n't . Republicans and Republican leaners are somewhat more positive about Trump 's prospects , with 55 % saying he will be successful in getting his programs into law .
Opponents of President Obama 's health care law have fought it on many fronts , ranging from multiple efforts by House Republicans to repeal or alter it to the legal challenge spearheaded by conservatives that led to today 's Supreme Court ruling on the law , which upheld a key provision . One constant in the battle over the Affordable Care Act has been the depth of the partisan divide over the legislation .
The press receives lower ratings for its coverage of Iraq from those who were following that story closely – 13 % rate the coverage excellent , 37 % say it 's been good . Reports about sub-par conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center receive similar ratings from those following the story closely – 10 % excellent , 39 % good . The public also gives the press higher grades for its Smith coverage than for its reporting on the 2008 presidential campaign and on the mounting tensions between Iran and the U.S . Roughly half of those following each story give the press excellent or good ratings for its coverage .
In contrast , just 13 % of Democrats approve of the job Republican leaders are doing . These views have not changed significantly in recent years . Democrats and Democratic leaners feel similarly about their party leaders as Republicans do about theirs . About half ( 54 % ) of Democrats say they approve of the job Democratic leaders in Congress are doing . This is a somewhat higher share than the 47 % who approved in June 2018 . Only about one-in-ten Republicans ( 11 % ) approve of the way Democratic leaders are handling their jobs .
Partisans also generally agree about their inability to agree on `` basic facts . '' Overall , 73 % of the public – including 77 % of Republicans and 72 % of Democrats – say that voters in both parties `` not only disagree over plans and policies , but also can not agree on the basic facts . ''
By far the biggest single import is crude oil : The U.S. bought $ 246.5 billion worth of overseas crude last year . Along with various other petroleum products , natural gas and other energy sources , energy imports in 2014 totaled nearly $ 355 billion , according to our analysis of detailed trade data from the Census Bureau . ( The country spent even more on computer , electronics and telecommunications equipment , which the Census Bureau splits into several different categories : $ 360 billion or more , depending on what you include . ) No single product category dominates U.S. exports the way energy does with imports . The country exports everything from civilian aircraft ( $ 57.9 billion last year ) to `` hair and waste materials '' ( $ 660 million ) . But the nation 's energy exports have soared in recent years : They totaled $ 167.1 billion last year , versus $ 24.6 billion in 2004 , mostly in the form of fuel oil and other petroleum products .
These shifts are reflected in the composition of the partisan coalitions . Today , Christians make up about half of Democratic voters ( 52 % ) ; in 2008 , about three-quarters of Democrats ( 73 % ) were Christians . The share of Democratic voters who are religiously unaffiliated has approximately doubled over this period ( from 18 % to 38 % ) .
In Germany , France and the United Kingdom , fewer people believe the U.S. government respects personal freedoms than was the case in 2008 , the final year of the George W. Bush administration , which was widely unpopular in Western Europe .
Fact Tank 's look at standardized test results around the world seemed to bear out these sentiments : U.S. students are improving – slowly – in math and science , but still lagging their peers internationally .
Slightly more than half of U.S. adults ( 54 % ) said in a Pew Research Center survey conducted in May 2017 that they were somewhat or very worried about the development of driverless vehicles , while 40 % said they were at least somewhat enthusiastic about it . A majority of U.S. adults ( 56 % ) also said they would not personally want to ride in a driverless car if they had the opportunity , compared with 44 % who would . The most common reasons cited by Americans who said they would not personally want to ride in a self-driving car were a lack of trust or fear of giving up control to a machine ( 42 % ) and other specific safety concerns ( 30 % ) . Among those who said they would want to ride in a self-driving car , the largest share ( 37 % ) cited a love of technology and/or a desire for an exciting or new experience . Another 17 % pointed to safety in the belief that a driverless car would be safer than a car driven by a human .
Despite the negative views about the country 's direction , most Egyptians still have a positive view of the Muslim Brotherhood , the organization that has been the dominant political force in post-Mubarak Egypt . Still , the group 's ratings have declined somewhat over the past two years – 63 % give it a positive rating today , compared with 75 % in 2011 . About half ( 52 % ) express a favorable opinion of the Muslim Brotherhood-affiliated Freedom and Justice Party ( FJP ) .
92 % — Percentage of LGBT adults in America who say society has become more accepting of them over the past 10 years .
Although adult English/Spanish bilingual Latinos have some proficiency in speaking both English and Spanish , they tend to use the languages differently depending on the setting . English is far and away the dominant language of U.S. commerce and trade , and dominates U.S. workplaces . English/Spanish bilingual Latinos report that they largely speak English in the workplace . About 60 % of bilingual Hispanic workers usually speak more English than Spanish at work ( 29 % ) , or use only English at work ( 33 % ) . Widespread Spanish language usage at work is relatively rare among bilingual workers . About one in ten report speaking `` more Spanish than English '' or `` only Spanish '' at work ( see Figure 3 ) . English/Spanish bilingual Hispanics seem to be markedly different from the wider Hispanic adult population in their mass media preferences . The survey asked respondents whether they typically received news ( via TV or radio ) in English or Spanish . Almost 40 % of all Latino adults said either `` only Spanish '' or `` more Spanish than English , '' reflecting the usage patterns of Latino adults with little speaking ability in English . Bilingual Latinos extensively use English to obtain news broadcasts , as Figure 3 illustrates . Nearly five in ten bilingual Hispanics hear news in `` English only '' or `` more English than Spanish . '' Less than a fifth reported obtaining news in `` only Spanish '' or `` more Spanish than English . '' So the preponderance of bilingual speaking Latinos either obtains news in English , or does not express an exclusive preference for hearing news in Spanish . At home English/Spanish speaking Latinos are about evenly divided in their use of Spanish and English ( see Figure 3 ) . About a third either speaks more Spanish than English ( 17 % ) or only speaks Spanish at home ( 17 % ) . And , about a third speaks more English than Spanish ( 21 % ) or only English at home ( 12 % ) . The remaining third uses Spanish and English equally at home .
Two foreign policy stories topped campaign news last week in terms of public interest . Roughly three-in-ten Americans ( 31 % ) paid very close attention to the release of 15 British sailors and marines held captive by the Iranian government , and 21 % said this was the story they followed most closely . The hostage story was no . 1 in terms of coverage : 12 % of the newshole was devoted to this story . One third of the public paid very close attention to the situation in Iraq and 20 % said this was the story they followed most closely . While media coverage of the Iraq war remains focused more heavily on the policy debate , the public expresses more interest in events on the ground in Iraq . Coverage of the policy debate outweighed news about the war itself by a better than two-to-one margin this past week . At the same time , the public was more than twice as likely to list the situation in Iraq , rather than the policy debate at home , as their top news story . News coverage of the firing of eight U.S. attorneys fell off dramatically last week , while public interest in the story remained fairly constant . The week of March 26 , 11 % of the newshole was devoted to the U.S. attorney firings – making it one of the top two most covered stories of that week . This past week , only 1 % of the news coverage was devoted to this story . Roughly one-in-five Americans paid very close attention to this story last week and 6 % said it was the story they followed most closely . Global warming was back in the news last week – with a Supreme Court ruling on auto emissions and a new report on the causes of global climate change . Five percent of the news for the week was devoted to this topic . Roughly one quarter of the public ( 26 % ) followed news about global warming very closely . The same percentage paid very close attention to global warming news in early February of this year following the worldwide conference on the issue in Paris . Public interest in this topic is substantially higher now than it was ten years ago . In late 1997 , only about 10 % of the public was following news about global warming very closely .
The gap between partisan leaning and support for Obama is particularly clear among older white voters . As is the case with younger voters overall , the share of younger white voters who affiliate with the Democratic Party and the share that supports Barack Obama is almost identical . However , among white voters ages 50 and older , substantially fewer support Obama than identify with or lean to the Democratic Party . There was no such gap in 2004 , when the balance of party and the balance of support for John Kerry was virtually identical across all age groups .
To varying degrees , the same pattern also holds true across these five countries . The disparity is most pronounced in New Zealand , where the top quartile of most active legislative tweeters produced 76 % of all legislative tweets . The conversation is least concentrated in the U.S. , where the top quarter of legislative tweeters only posted 58 % of total tweets from members of Congress .
About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of Trump supporters who say they are very conservative express a preference for voting in person on Nov. 3 , while 19 % say they would like to cast their ballots in person before Election Day and just 11 % say they would like to vote by mail . While most liberal and moderate Trump voters also express a preference for in-person voting , they are about twice as likely as very conservative Trump voters to prefer to vote by mail this year ( 22 % vs. 11 % ) .
Gun owners with children younger than 18 in the household are more likely than those who are n't parents to say they keep all their guns locked and unloaded while they 're at home , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Even so , 44 % of gun-owning parents say there is a gun that is both loaded and easily accessible to them all or most of the time when they 're at home . Among gun-owning parents with children in their household , 54 % say all of the guns in their home are kept in a locked place and 53 % say they are all kept unloaded . By comparison , 30 % of gun owners who are not parents say all their guns are locked and 40 % say they are unloaded , according to the survey conducted in March and April among 3,930 U.S. adults , including 1,269 gun owners .
About four-in-ten of all adults in Britain ( 43 % ) , Russia ( 43 % ) , Spain ( 42 % ) , Lithuania ( 39 % ) and Poland ( 39 % ) also say they engage in social networking . Among this group , Russia is the only country where nearly all internet users are on social networking sites . Only 6 % of Russian internet users say they do not go on these sites . In Germany ( 35 % ) , France ( 35 % ) , and China ( 32 % ) , about a third of adults do so . Germany , France , and Japan are the only countries polled where more internet users say they do not go on social networking sites than say they do . While 35 % of Germans use social networking sites , 44 % go online but do not use such sites ; the comparable numbers are 35 % and 38 % in France and 25 % and 33 % in Japan .
When financial stress becomes too much to bear , bankruptcy becomes an option . Individual ( non-business ) bankruptcy filings surged during the Great Recession — largely due to sharp increases in Chapter 7 ( liquidation ) filings . Though individual bankruptcy filings have fallen since 2010 , they remain well above pre-recession levels .
Still , the percentage of Mexicans who are inclined to move to the U.S. remains steady at roughly a third ( 34 % ) . People who want to migrate north are split between those who would move without authorization ( 17 % ) and those who would move only with legal authority ( 17 % ) . Nearly two-thirds of Mexicans ( 65 % ) say they would not go live in the U.S. , even if they had the means and ability to do so . Men ( 38 % would move ) and young people age 18 - 29 ( 51 % ) are particularly likely to say they would go to the U.S. if they could .
The survey also asked Americans who say they do not use voice assistants about their reasons for not using them . Some 61 % of these non-users say they are just not interested in the tool . Around one-quarter of this group say they do not use voice assistants because none of the devices they own have this feature ( 28 % ) or because they are concerned about privacy ( 27 % ) . And a slightly smaller share ( 18 % ) reports that voice assistants are too complicated to use .
Overall , a plurality of Latin Americans surveyed say that in the next few years , they expect Cuba to become more democratic . Across the six countries , a median of 47 % say this . A median of 27 % say Cuba will remain about as democratic as it is now , while only one-in-ten say Cuba will be less democratic in the future .
President Obama marks the 70th anniversary of the pivotal invasion of Europe at a ceremony in Normandy , France , today to pay tribute to the 16 million Americans who served in World War II . The moment is a particularly special one , given the dwindling ranks of the `` greatest generation '' whose members fought in that costly battle . Just over one million World War II veterans survive today , according to Veterans Administration figures collected by The National WWII Museum .
Just about half in Canada ( 52 % ) support TPP . Roughly three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say the agreement would be a bad thing for Canada . There is similar support in the U.S. for the deal – 49 % say it is a good thing , while 29 % believe it is bad for America .
But perhaps just as striking is that the geographic distribution of the poor has changed dramatically , too . A new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data finds that the South continues to be home to many of America 's poor , though to a lesser degree than a half-century ago . In 1960 , half ( 49 % ) of impoverished Americans lived in the South . By 2010 , that share had dropped to 41 % . Much of the geographic shift of poverty reflects general trends in population shifts across the country over that same period . As rural areas , such as in the Midwest , have become less impoverished since the 1960s , those areas make up a smaller share of the U.S. population overall . At the same time , urban centers have gained in total population and hold a greater share of the U.S. population overall .
About one-in-ten Americans ( 9 % ) did not learn about this year 's presidential election in a given week from any of 11 types of sources asked about in a January Pew Research Center survey . One striking trait of this group is their lack of faith in the impact of voting . American adults ages 18 to 29 are more likely than any other age group to have not learned about the election . In total , 17 % of them did not learn from any type of source , nearly double that of the next highest age group ( though the vast majority of younger adults – 83 % – did learn about the election ) . This corresponds to earlier research showing that younger adults tend to be more politically unengaged . Those with more ideologically consistent views are more likely to have learned about the election than those who had ideologically mixed views . Of those with mixed views , 14 % did n't learn about the election from any source , which is higher than those who are more consistently liberal or conservative . Recent research has shown that political engagement is increasingly linked to ideological consistency ; it follows that the 9 % who did not learn about the election are both less engaged in the political process and more likely to have mixed ideological views .
Non-Hispanic White Americans make up the largest share of registered voters in the U.S. , at 69 % of the total as of 2019 . Hispanic and Black registered voters each account for 11 % of the total , while those from other racial or ethnic backgrounds account for the remainder ( 8 % ) . White voters account for a diminished share of registered voters than in the past , declining from 85 % in 1996 to 69 % ahead of this year 's election . This change has unfolded in both parties , but White voters have consistently accounted for a much larger share of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters than of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters ( 81 % vs. 59 % as of 2019 ) .
A 67 % majority of the public says they are dissatisfied with how things are going in this country today , compared with 28 % who say they are satisfied . This represents little change over the past year . In fact , the share of Americans expressing satisfaction with national conditions has been no more than about 30 % for well more than a decade .
President Obama ordered a review of immigration enforcement policies last week , following weeks of growing pressure from Democrats and Latino leaders , one of whom recently called him `` deporter in chief . '' As the number of unauthorized immigrants sent home nears two million under his administration , the president met with advocates late on Friday and acknowledged deportations should be more humane , citing concern over a broken immigration system that separates families . About six-in-ten unauthorized immigrants deported in fiscal year 2013 had been convicted of a federal or state crime , according to Immigration and Customs Enforcement . Of all those deported , 33 % had committed at least one felony—crimes ranging from murder to failure to appear in court , or at least three misdemeanors . That means 152,000 immigrants were deported but did not have a criminal conviction . Another 95,000 were deported and had a criminal record that included no more than two misdemeanors .
A declining share of U.S. Catholics say Pope Francis is doing a good or excellent job addressing the church 's sex abuse scandal . About a third say this ( 31 % ) , down from 55 % in June 2015 . The decline in confidence has occurred across age groups , among both men and women and even among those who attend Mass weekly . And while Francis is still widely popular overall among U.S. Catholics , there is evidence that positive views of him are eroding .
As political and economic unrest roils Venezuela , U.S. asylum applications filed by Venezuelans so far in fiscal 2016 have jumped 168 % compared with the same time period a year earlier , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S . Citizenship and Immigration Services data . Venezuela is now among the top nations of origin for asylum applicants to the U.S. , accounting for 10,221 applications filed between October 2015 and June 2016 – up from 3,810 filed during the same time period the year before . ( The data exclude applicants in the process of deportation . )
Cuban American registered voters have mixed views of Trump heading into the November elections . About half ( 52 % ) say they approve of the way Trump is handling his job as president , while 45 % disapprove . By comparison , only 26 % of non-Cuban Hispanic voters approve of Trump and 70 % disapprove . Trump 's ratings among these groups are nearly identical to those in a December 2019 national survey of Latino adults , taken before the coronavirus outbreak . Cuban voters ' assessments of Trump are deeply polarized along party lines : 81 % of Cuban Republicans approve of Trump , while 91 % of Cuban Democrats disapprove of the president . Trump 's approval ratings are similarly partisan – and stable – among U.S. voters overall .
Most Democrats want party leaders to `` stand up '' to Trump . As was the case a year ago , a majority of Democrats ( 70 % ) want their party 's leaders to `` stand up '' to Trump this year , even if it means less gets done in Washington ; just 26 % want them to try as best they can to work with Trump , even if it means disappointing some groups of Democratic supporters . A year ago , 63 % of Democrats wanted their party 's leaders to stand up to the president . Among Republicans , the share saying Trump should stand up to Democrats has increased from 40 % a year ago to 51 % currently .
A Pew post-election poll taken last weekend1 finds the voters giving Obama better grades for his conduct during the campaign than any presidential candidate since 1988 . Seventy-five percent of the sample gave Obama a grade of A or B grade for his performance , while 24 percent gave him a C , D or F .
About three-quarters of Millennials ( 77 % ) now approve of Obama 's job performance , up from 66 % in October and 58 % in August . By contrast , 53 % of Generation Xers , 49 % of Baby Boomers and just 41 % of those in the Silent Generation approve of his job performance – and these ratings are little changed in recent months .
Evaluations of Bush 's overall job performance are roughly equal to his ratings on the economy and Iraq , suggesting that favorable personal evaluations and the issue of terrorism are not counterbalancing these more problematic areas in the public 's broader assessment of his performance . Throughout the past year , the president 's overall job approval rating has been significantly higher ­ by anywhere from three to nine points ­ than his rating on the economy and Iraq specifically . Today the president 's overall rating is identical to his rating on the economy and just two points above evaluations of his handling of Iraq . While significantly more approve of Bush 's performance when it comes to terrorist threats , this apparently no longer lifts his overall approval rating as it did earlier in the year .
The political typology sorts people into cohesive groups based on their values , political beliefs and partisan affiliation . Among the eight major typology groups , Staunch Conservatives – who are strongly anti-government and pro-business – are the only one in which a majority ( 67 % ) says that the U.S. stands above all other nations .
The American public is evenly divided on whether the increased number of deportations of undocumented immigrants in recent years is a good thing or a bad thing ( 45 % each ) , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults . About half of whites ( 49 % ) view the growing number of deportations positively . But Hispanics have a different view . By 60 % to 35 % , Hispanics view the increase negatively , according to the survey .
Public interest in news about the Iraq war has remained steady over the past two months . Last week , 27 % of Americans followed news about the war very closely and 10 % said it was the story they followed more closely than any other .
About half ( 53 % ) of liberal Democrats say they would more likely to vote for a candidate who supports the Iran agreement , compared with just 17 % who would be less likely to vote for a candidate with this position . Moderate and liberal Democrats are divided : About as many say they would be less likely ( 37 % ) as more likely ( 31 % ) to support a candidate who supports the Iran nuclear agreement .
Overall , 69 % of voters who are closely following reports about corruption say most members should not be reelected in 2006 , far more antagonism than among people who are less engaged in the story . And among independents , these feelings are even stronger . Fully 77 % of independent voters who are closely tracking this news story believe most members should be voted out this fall .
Only in the Philippines ( 61 % ) and Tunisia ( 53 % ) does Putin enjoy the trust of more than half the population . A poor international image is not new for Putin . In the Asia-Pacific , Putin 's favorability ratings have remained low in South Korea , Japan and Australia over the past decade . The notable exception is the Philippines . Since Pew Research Center first asked the question there in 2014 , confidence in Putin has increased dramatically from 38 % to 61 % as the Philippines has established closer ties with Russia while distancing itself from the U.S .
Millennials have surpassed Generation Xers as the largest generation in the U.S. labor force . There were 57 million Millennials ( born 1981 to 1996 ) working or looking for work in 2018 . That was more than the 53 million Gen Xers ( born 1965 to 1980 ) and well ahead of the 38 million Baby Boomers ( born 1946 to 1964 ) .
More than half of U.S. adults ( 55 % ) say the reasons why Black people have been hospitalized at higher rates than other racial or ethnic groups have more to do with circumstances beyond people 's control . Still , a sizable share ( 44 % ) says it has more to do with people 's choices and lifestyles . Two-thirds of Black adults say these reasons have more to do with circumstances beyond people 's control . Narrower majorities of Asian ( 56 % ) , Hispanic ( 54 % ) and white ( 53 % ) adults say the same .
Yet the share who says they are very confident in Donald Trump ( 22 % ) is substantially higher than the shares saying this for either Republican leaders ( 9 % ) or Democratic leaders ( 11 % ) in Congress . But the public is also more likely to say they are `` not at all confident '' in Trump 's decision making on tax policy ( 42 % ) than to say this about either party 's leaders in Congress ( 31 % say this about GOP leaders , 24 % about Democratic leaders ) .
While publics around the world are showing signs of apprehension about China 's growing economic power , its role in foreign affairs and the safety of the products it exports , the Chinese are confident that the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing will change the way their country is viewed . By nearly unanimous margins , Chinese respondents say their country will be a successful host and that the Olympic Games will help China 's image around the world .
About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they were following news about the terrorist shootings in Paris very closely , according to a separate survey conducted Jan. 8 - 11 among 1,000 adults . That compares with 24 % who were very closely following news about the U.S. economy , 19 % who tracked the AirAsia flight that crashed Dec. 29 , and 17 % who paid close attention to news about the incoming Republican leaders in Congress . While younger Americans typically pay less attention to news events than older Americans , the gap on the terrorist shootings in Paris is particularly large : 43 % of those ages 65 and older followed this news very closely , while just 15 % of those ages 18 - 29 say they did the same .
The public showed more interest in news about flooding along the Mississippi River and the continuing struggles of the U.S. economy than in news about the former IMF leader , Strauss-Kahn . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the flooding most closely , while 15 % say the economy was their top story . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say they followed news about the flooding very closely , while a comparable 33 % say they followed news about the economy this closely . Nearly one-in-ten ( 8 % ) say their top story for the week was Obama 's speech about the Middle East and his meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu the next day at the White House . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed this news very closely .
What 's the news experience like on Facebook ? Our study of news consumption on Facebook found Facebook users are experiencing a relatively diverse array of news stories on the site — roughly half of Facebook users regularly see six different topic areas . The most common news people see is entertainment news : 73 % of Facebook users regularly see this kind of content on the site . Unlike Twitter , where a core function is the distribution of information as news breaks , Facebook is not yet a place many turn to for learning about breaking news . ( Though the company may be trying to change that by tweaking its algorithm to make the posts appearing in newsfeed more timely . ) Still , just 28 % of Facebook news consumers ever use the site to keep up with a news event as it unfolds , less than half of those users would turn to Facebook first to follow breaking news .
The local television landscape in the U.S. has undergone major changes in recent years , as a wave of consolidations and station purchases have made some broadcast media owners considerably larger . On Monday , Sinclair Broadcast Group , one of the biggest owners of local TV stations , announced that it has agreed to purchase Tribune Media 's 42 stations for $ 3.9 billion – a deal both Nexstar and 21st Century Fox were reportedly also pursuing . In 2004 , the five largest companies in local TV – Sinclair , Nexstar , Gray , Tegna and Tribune – owned , operated or serviced 179 full-power stations , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Securities and Exchange Commission filings data . That number grew to 378 in 2014 and to 443 in 2016 . If approved by regulators , Sinclair 's acquisition of Tribune would bring its total to 208 , by far the largest among the media companies .
Laura Bush , once almost universally liked , has seen her favorability ratings slip along with her husband 's over the past three years . Currently , a slim majority of Americans ( 54 % ) say they have a favorable impression of the First Lady , down from 70 % in August of 2004 . The number saying they have an unfavorable view of Laura Bush has risen from 18 % to 29 % over the same time period . While trending downward , views of Laura Bush have changed less dramatically than have views of her husband over the past five years . The poll , conducted Dec. 19 - 30 among 1,430 adults nationwide , finds Laura Bush 's favorability rating has fallen by 16 points since August 2004 ; by contrast , George W. Bush 's favorability has declined by 25 points over the same period ( from 58 % to 33 % ) .
The audience for public television programming declined over the past year : In 2018 , the NewsHour program , which airs on PBS , attracted 1.1 million viewers on average , down 6 % from the year before .
Voters supporting Donald Trump are more likely than Hillary Clinton supporters to report having received a pre-recorded phone call from one of the campaigns ( 23 % vs. 13 % ) , while Clinton supporters are more likely than Trump supporters to say they have received an email ( 32 % vs 26 % ) . Nearly identical percentages of voters supporting Trump and Clinton report having received a piece of printed mail ( 25 % of Trump supporters , 22 % of Clinton supporters ) or a phone call from a live person ( 11 % of supporters from each campaign ) .
When it comes to top concerns in Venezuela , the list of problems is long and daunting . The foremost issue , and one that has plagued the country for years , is inflation . Roughly nine-in-ten ( 92 % ) say that rising prices are a very big problem . Inflation in Venezuela is the highest in the world , and is estimated to be well over 100 % . The next most concerning issues are also economic – lack of job opportunities ( 85 % very big problem ) and shortages of basic goods ( 84 % ) . The lack of basic goods is partially on account of the high inflation rate . Other serious issues also rank high among Venezuelans : Roughly seven-in-ten or more say that crime , public debt , health care , corrupt political leaders and poor quality schools are very big problems . In fact , worries about health care and poor quality schools have increased in just the past year ( up 15 and 14 percentage points , respectively ) . Many people also say that inequality ( 56 % ) and traffic ( 51 % ) are significant problems , with intense concerns about traffic increasing 13 points since 2014 .
In the 1993 survey , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents were divided over whether it is more important to control gun ownership or protect gun rights ( 47 % each ) . As recently as 2007 , 48 % of Republicans and GOP leaners said it was more important to control gun ownership , while 47 % said it was more important to protect gun rights . Since 2007 , Republican attitudes have undergone a dramatic change : The share of Republicans saying it is more important to protect gun rights has increased by 28 points to 75 % . By contrast , Democratic opinion has remained much more stable . In December , about twice as many Democrats and Democratic leaners said it was more important to control gun ownership ( 65 % ) than to protect gun rights ( 31 % ) .
Support for the Black Lives Matter movement remains particularly widespread among Black adults . Some 87 % of Black Americans say they support the movement , similar to the share who said this in June . However , the share of Black adults expressing strong support for the movement has decreased 9 points , from 71 % to 62 % . The partisan gap is similar among White adults . About nine-in-ten White Democrats ( 88 % ) express at least some support for the Black Lives Matter movement , compared with 16 % of White Republicans . And while about half of White Democrats ( 51 % ) say they strongly support the movement , just 2 % of White Republicans say the same .
The Muslim Brotherhood 's ratings are down – but a substantial minority still like them . Three-in-four Egyptians had a favorable opinion of the Muslim Brotherhood back in 2011 , in the months after Mubarak 's ouster , but in the current poll just 38 % hold this view . Once again , this is a higher number than some might anticipate , given that over the last year the new government has banned the group and labeled it a terrorist organization .
The public expresses considerably higher levels of confidence that the security of the election systems in their state and around the nation were secure from hacking than it did before the election . About three-quarters ( 77 % ) say they are very or somewhat confident that their state 's systems were secure from hacking and other technological threats , up 11 percentage points from the share saying this before the election ( 66 % ) . And while just 45 % expressed confidence in the security of systems in the U.S. before the election , more than six-in-ten ( 64 % ) now say this . Confidence has risen among both parties , but the shift is particularly pronounced among Democrats . About three-quarters of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 76 % ) are either very or somewhat confident that systems in their state were secure – a month before the election , just 60 % said this . Republicans express even higher levels of confidence in the security of their state 's systems ( 81 % now say this , up from 75 % pre-election ) . Before the election , just 34 % of Democrats said they were at least somewhat confident election systems in the U.S. were secure from hacking and other technological threats . That has risen to 60 % following the election .
Germans who support the right-wing populist party Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) are overwhelmingly opposed to globalization . Only 19 % of AfD supporters say globalization has been a good thing for Germany , compared with 83 % of those who support the Greens and 70 % of supporters of the CDU/CSU or SPD .
The survey found that almost three in four Latino adults are either themselves without health insurance or personally know someone who does not have insurance coverage . In addition , a substantial minority of Latinos reports health care challenges , such as problems paying medical bills , delays seeking care because of costs , and not getting needed health care services . Furthermore , some Latinos report having problems communicating with health care providers due to language barriers , or having difficulty getting care due to their race and ethnic background . Over one-third of Latino adults report lacking health insurance . In addition , almost six in ten ( 59 % ) of those who do have health insurance say that they personally know someone who does not ( 38 % of all Latinos ) . Together , 73 % of Latinos either lack health insurance coverage themselves , or know someone who is uninsured ( see Chart 1 ) .
In addition to opposing new troop commitments , many in NATO countries want troops withdrawn altogether . In France , Germany and Spain , opinion is almost evenly divided between those who support keeping troops in Afghanistan until the situation there has stabilized and those who want troops removed as soon as possible . However , in all three countries support for keeping troops has increased slightly since last year . There has been little change in opinion in Britain , where 46 % support keeping troops in Afghanistan and 48 % want forces removed . Poles ( 30 % keep troops , 57 % remove troops ) and Turks ( 15 % keep troops , 63 % remove troops ) are overwhelmingly in favor of removing troops , but support for keeping them in Afghanistan is up slightly from 2008 .
An estimated 628,000 Hispanics of Peruvian origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Peruvians are the 11th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 1.2 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013 . Since 1990 , the Peruvian-origin population has more than tripled , growing from 176,000 to 628,000 over the period . At the same time , the foreign-born population of Peruvian origin living in the U.S. grew by about 206 % , up from 134,000 in 1990 to 411,000 in 2013 . In comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 34.6 million , or 64.1 % , of the Hispanic population in 2013 .
People are divided in their perceptions of how powerful a role the U.S. plays on the world stage compared with 10 years ago . A global median of 35 % say the country is as important on the world stage as before , while 31 % say it plays a more important role and 25 % say it plays a less important role . Individually , most countries say the U.S. role has either grown or remains as important as before . Around half or more in Nigeria ( 54 % ) , Israel ( 54 % ) and Kenya ( 51 % ) say the U.S. has grown in power and influence . Japan stands out as the only country where a majority of people think the U.S. plays a less important role than it did 10 years ago . Only 16 % of Japanese think the U.S. has grown in influence , equal to the share of Germans who say the same .
Among women ages 40 to 50 , the median age at which those with a master 's degree or more first became mothers now stands at 30 , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of census data . In comparison , the median age at first birth for women with a high school diploma or less is just 24 .
As of the end of 2017 , 96 out of 167 countries with populations of at least 500,000 ( 57 % ) were democracies of some kind , and only 21 ( 13 % ) were autocracies . Nearly four dozen other countries – 46 , or 28 % – exhibited elements of both democracy and autocracy . Broadly speaking , the share of democracies among the world 's governments has been on an upward trend since the mid-1970s , and now sits just shy of its post-World War II record ( 58 % in 2016 ) .
With a projected contraction in Brazil 's economy over the next 12 months , things look even bleaker for this year . Only 13 % of those surveyed by Pew Research last spring say economic conditions are good . From 2013 to 2015 , Brazilians ' perception of their economy fell by a staggering 46 percentage points . Only six-in-ten Brazilians now have a favorable view of their own country , with 39 % voicing an unfavorable opinion . This includes a sharp decline in opinion of Brazil in the past year , with favorable views dropping 17 percentage points since 2014 .
When Pew Research first began tracking Twitter usage in November 2010 , 8 % of online adults used the platform . As of January 2014 , 19 % of online adults were using Twitter . The last time we asked about Facebook in September 2013 , we found 71 % of internet users using the social network .
Mobile phone sharers , too , are often quite concerned about identity theft ; outside of India and Lebanon , at least half of mobile phone sharers in every country report being very concerned about this issue . For mobile sharers , too , concerns about device security can play a role in why people choose not to own their own devices . While cost is the primary reason mobile phone sharers give for why they do not personally have a phone ( a median of 34 % across eight countries reports this ) , the second most commonly cited reason is that a previous mobile phone was lost , broken or stolen . Another 2 % say they do not own their own mobile phone because of concerns that it will be stolen .
Six-in-ten Egyptians want their laws to strictly follow the Quran , according to a Pew Global Attitudes Project survey conducted last spring . About a third ( 32 % ) want them to conform to the principles of Islam but not strictly follow the Quran , and just 6 % say the Quran should not have an influence .
Public views of economic news—both overall and across most sectors—are little changed in recent months . Today , about half of Americans ( 53 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , while 41 % say they are hearing mostly bad news and just 3 % say they are hearing mostly good news .
The biennial news consumption survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted among 3,204 adults from April 27 to May 22 , finds that the audience for online news is fairly broad , but not particularly deep . People who say they logged on for news yesterday spent 32 minutes , on average , getting the news online . That is significantly less than the average number of minutes that newspaper readers , radio news listeners , and TV news viewers spend with those sources . And while nearly half of all Americans ( 48 % ) spend at least 30 minutes getting news on television , just 9 % spend that long getting news online . The web serves mostly as a supplement to other sources rather than a primary source of news . Those who use the web for news still spend more time getting news from other sources than they do getting news online . In addition , web news consumers emphasize speed and convenience over detail . Of the 23 % who got news on the internet yesterday , only a minority visited newspaper websites . Instead , websites that include quick updates of major headlines , such as MSNBC , Yahoo , and CNN , dominate the web-news landscape .
Last year 's series of Pew Research Center reports on political polarization used a 10-item scale of ideological consistency to place Americans into five categories : consistently conservative or liberal , mostly conservative or liberal , and mixed . By that metric , 9 % of the public overall is consistently conservative , including 20 % of Republicans and Republican leaners ; most of the remaining Republicans and leaners were `` mostly conservative '' ( 33 % ) or had a mixture of liberal and conservative views ( 37 % ) . Consistent conservatives participate in politics at higher rates than most other ideological groups . Political engagement tends to be highest among the most consistent conservatives and liberals , the Pew Research survey found . Half of consistent conservatives , for example , said they had contacted an elected official within the past two years – the highest level of any of our five groups . ( The corresponding figure for all Americans , by the way , was 28 % . ) Consistent conservatives also ranked high on other measurements of political engagement , such as donating money ( 26 % ) , attending campaign events ( 24 % ) and volunteering on a campaign ( 12 % ) .
Views about expanding the priesthood were tied to education , with higher levels of support found among people with at least a secondary school education . In Bolivia , for example , 59 % of Catholics with a secondary education or more were in favor of female priests , compared with 42 % among Catholics with less education .
Most people in the countries we surveyed say rich nations should do more than developing nations to address climate change . A median of 54 % agree with the statement `` Rich countries , such as the U.S. , Japan and Germany , should do more than developing countries because they have produced most of the world 's greenhouse gas emissions so far . '' A median of just 38 % think `` developing countries should do just as much as rich countries because they will produce most of the world 's greenhouse gas emissions in the future . '' Notably , the U.S. is among a small group of countries in which half or more believe developing countries should do just as much – half of Americans hold this view , while only four-in-ten want rich countries to shoulder more of the costs .
Trump 's support from evangelicals is strongest among those who attend church regularly . Eight-in-ten white evangelical Protestants who attend church at least once a month approve of the way Trump is handling his job as president , including 67 % who strongly approve of his job performance . White evangelical Protestants who attend church more sporadically approve of Trump 's job performance at a nearly comparable rate ( 71 % ) , but they are significantly less likely than churchgoing evangelicals to strongly approve ( 54 % ) .
Nonetheless , public views of medical scientists and their research related to childhood vaccines are broadly positive regardless of parent status , race , ethnicity and experience using alternative medicine . Fully 73 % of U.S. adults believe that medical scientists should have a major role in policy decisions related to childhood vaccines . In addition , a 55 % majority say they trust information from medical scientists a lot to give a full and accurate picture of the health effects of vaccines . At the same time people are less trusting of other groups about this issue . For example , just 13 % trust information from pharmaceutical industry leaders about the health effects of the MMR vaccine a lot . People with high science knowledge are especially positive in their views of medical scientists and research on childhood vaccines . Younger adults , ages 18 to 29 , are a bit more skeptical than older age groups about medical scientists and their work on childhood vaccines .
As the United Nations opens its 68th General Assembly session , publics around the world continue to have a positive impression of the international organization . Clear majorities in 22 of the 39 countries surveyed say they have a favorable view of the UN , including thumbs-up from Security Council permanent members Britain , France and the U.S. Ratings for the UN are on balance favorable in Russia . But the Chinese are divided in their opinion . However , views trend negatively in key Middle Eastern publics , including Israel , the Palestinian territories , Jordan and Turkey . Overall , a median of 58 % across the 39 countries surveyed express favorable views of the UN , with just 27 % holding an unfavorable opinion . South Koreans express the highest support ( 84 % ) . Ban Ki-moon , who heads the UN , is South Korean . Meanwhile , roughly eight-in-ten Indonesians and Filipinos approve of the international body . Support is also high in Africa , and most of Europe and Latin America .
In an increasingly contentious presidential campaign , just a quarter of voters who support Donald Trump in the general election say they have a lot or some close friends who are supporters of Hillary Clinton . Even fewer Clinton backers ( 18 % ) say they have at least some friends who support Trump . Nearly half of Clinton supporters ( 47 % ) , and 31 % of Trump supporters , say they have no close friends who support the opposing candidate . The survey conducted June 7-July 5 among 4,602 adults , including 3,834 registered voters , on Pew Research Center 's nationally representative American Trends Panel finds that large majorities of both Trump and Clinton supporters have friends who back their preferred candidates . More than four-in-ten Trump supporters ( 44 % ) say they have a lot of close friends who back Trump , while another 38 % say they have some friends who support him . Similarly , most Clinton supporters say they have a lot ( 41 % ) or some close friends ( 40 % ) who also express support for Clinton .
Indians express confident views about their country 's role in the international arena . Almost four-in-ten ( 38 % ) think India is already one of the world 's leading powers and roughly half ( 49 % ) say it will be one eventually . Only 8 % believe it will never be a major power .
Over the past year , the importance of improving the job situation has declined among both Republicans and Democrats . A year ago , 66 % of Republicans and Republican leaners said improving the job situation was a top priority for Congress and the president . Today , roughly half say this ( 52 % ) – a 14 percentage point drop .
Attitudes about reducing inequality were also tied to views about children 's financial future . In countries where people tended to be pessimistic about reducing inequality , people also tended to be less optimistic about the financial future of their country 's children .
Public knowledge of news events also varies widely . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) knew that as part of his revised Iraq strategy , President Bush planned to increase U.S. military forces in the country . But only one-in-four Americans ( 24 % ) are aware that both houses of Congress passed legislation to increase the minimum wage and 34 % knew that Congress voted to raise the minimum wage to $ 7.25 an hour .
The same pattern was true for Barack Obama , although Obama 's ratings were on balance higher and steadier than those of his predecessor . They peaked shortly after his election , when 74 % of Americans had confidence in Obama to do the right thing internationally and 56 % approved of his job performance . While these numbers slipped after the first year of his presidency , around six-in-ten Americans remained confident in Obama on the global stage throughout the rest of his two terms , while his domestic approval ratings hovered in the mid- to high 40s . So far , Donald Trump has received lower international confidence ratings than Obama , but they are still higher than his overall approval rating in the U.S . In 2018 , 48 % of Americans have confidence in Trump 's international abilities , while his average job performance rating is at 39 % , according to recent Pew Research Center surveys .
Data from the past 50 years reveal the upward yet uneven trajectory of black political leadership in America . In 1965 , there were no blacks in the U.S. Senate , nor were there any black governors . And only six members of the House of Representatives were black . As of 2019 , there is greater representation in some areas – 52 House members are black , putting the share of black House members ( 12 % ) on par with the share of blacks in the U.S. population overall for the first time in history . But in other areas , there has been little change ( there are three black senators and no black governors ) . The current 116th Congress includes 52 black representatives , a record high and a large increase since 1965 . ( Rep. Adriano Espaillat , a New York Democrat and the first Dominican American elected to Congress , self-identifies as a Latino of African descent . The `` Biographical Directory of the United States Congress , '' on which this analysis is based , does not count Espaillat among the black members of Congress . ) Only one of these 52 representatives – Will Hurd of Texas – is a Republican . Two nonvoting delegates , representing the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands , are black . Only six representatives were black in 1965 , and all were Democrats .
More see China as the world 's leading economic power than the U.S . In every European country surveyed , a plurality or majority say China is the top economy in the world . Only in South Korea , Japan and the U.S. itself do more people name the U.S. Across Europe , these ratings are largely unchanged since 2019 despite the major changes in the global economy brought on by the coronavirus pandemic . Western Europeans have generally considered China 's economy to be the strongest worldwide in recent years , even while people in Central and Eastern Europe , Latin America , Africa and the Middle East – none of which were surveyed this year – have often named the U.S .
A new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data shows that 36.4 % of women ages 18 to 34 resided with family in 2014 , mainly in the home of mom , dad or both . The result is a striking U-shaped curve for young women – and young men – indicating a return to the past , statistically speaking .
About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they very closely followed President Obama 's announcement that he would send 1,200 National Guard troops to the Mexican border , a component in the long-running debate over immigration legislation ; 7 % say they followed this news more closely than any other major story . Reporting on this accounted for 5 % of the newshole examined by PEJ . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they very closely followed news about tensions between North Korea and South Korea ; 3 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the tensions made up 3 % of coverage . Just 16 % say they very closely followed the debate in Congress over whether to repeal the `` Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell '' policy concerning gays in the military . The full House and a Senate panel both voted to end the policy ; 3 % say they followed this news more closely than any other major story . The media devoted 2 % of coverage to this story . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) very closely followed news about unrest in Jamaica after attempts to arrest a major drug dealer . The story accounted for 1 % of coverage and just 1 % say this was the story they followed most closely .
Roughly seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) Mexicans say they are dissatisfied with the way things are going in their country , with only 27 % saying they are happy with the country 's direction . Satisfaction with Mexico 's direction is at its lowest point since 2011 .
Roughly a third of Americans ( 32 % ) say they have had a virtual party or social gathering with friends or family , according to the April 7 - 12 survey . ( Survey questions were posed to internet users on the Center 's American Trends Panel . Throughout this analysis , findings are reported as shares of the adult population . ) Besides turning to digital means to socialize , one-in-five Americans say they have watched a concert or a play that was livestreamed through the internet or an app . And with fitness centers , gyms and even some public parks closed , 18 % of Americans say they have participated in an online fitness class or done an online workout video at home .
The 50,420 asylum applications Canada received in 2017 were more than double the 23,930 it received in 2016 . Applications that meet basic eligibility requirements , such as having no serious criminal convictions , are referred to Canada 's Immigration and Refugee Board for further review ; the vast majority of applications in 2017 received this referral .
The publics surveyed also see Trump more negatively than other world leaders . Among the six leaders included on the survey , Angela Merkel receives the highest marks : A median of 76 % across the nations polled have confidence in the German chancellor . French President Emmanuel Macron also gets largely favorable reviews . Ratings for British Prime Minister Boris Johnson are roughly split . Ratings for Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping are overwhelmingly negative , although not as negative as those for Trump .
College basketball 's March Madness was the top story for 8 % of the public , and 13 % followed this very closely . Men and women differed in attentiveness to the NCAA : The tournament was the top news story for 11 % of men , but just 5 % of women . The basketball tournament garnered only 1 % of news coverage . The pope 's travels were the top story for 1 % of the public , and 5 % followed his visits to Mexico and Cuba very closely . Just 1 % of the newshole was devoted to this story .
Overall , 54 % say that from what they 've read and heard , the amount of energy produced in the U.S. has been increasing in recent years ; just 10 % say it has been decreasing , while 27 % say it 's been staying about the same . Last fall , somewhat fewer ( 48 % ) said they thought energy production in the U.S. was up . College graduates are among the most likely to say the amount of energy produced in the U.S. has been increasing ( 67 % ) ; those with no college experience are less likely to hold this view ( 44 % ) .
The sudden conclusion to Hosni Mubarak 's 30-year reign in Egypt dominated both news coverage and the public 's news interest last week . Fully 48 % say they followed news about Egyptian protests and Mubarak 's resignation more closely than any other story , far surpassing the week 's other stories . The news media devoted 39 % of coverage to the various elements of the Egypt story , according to a separate analysis conducted by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . Nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say they followed news about the protests Mubarak 's departure very closely . A week earlier , 32 % said they were following events in Egypt very closely .
Nine of the 13 federal agencies and institutions included in the survey are viewed favorably by 60 % or more of the public . But among all of them , the IRS was the only one rated more unfavorably than favorably by the public , with 51 % expressing a negative view compared with 44 % who had a favorable one . By comparison , five agencies received favorable ratings from two-thirds or more of the public : The Centers for Disease Control , or CDC ( 75 % favorable ) , NASA ( 73 % ) , the Defense Department ( 72 % ) , the Veterans Administration ( 68 % ) and the Department of Homeland Security ( 66 % ) .
The biggest difference between populists and nonpopulists is in the Czech Republic . Around six-in-ten ( 61 % ) of those with a favorable view of the Czech Freedom and Direct Democracy party ( SPD ) have confidence in Putin on world affairs , compared with just 24 % of those with an unfavorable view of the party . SPD leaders have been vocal about their opposition to Western sanctions on Russia after the annexation of Crimea and have aligned themselves with the Czech Republic 's pro-Russia president .
Overall , a quarter of the public now expresses unfavorable opinions of both political parties . This is driven in part by the growing share of Republicans and Republican leaners who view the GOP negatively , and by the overwhelming shares in both parties who view the opposing party unfavorably .
Nearly 364,000 foreign students with F-1 visas were newly enrolled at a U.S. college or university in 2016 , double the number at the outset of the Great Recession , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement data obtained through a public records request . From 2008 to 2016 , the number of new foreign students at U.S. colleges and universities increased 104 % – far outpacing overall college enrollment growth , which was 3.4 % during the same period , according to U.S. Census Bureau data . The increase was most pronounced at public colleges and universities , which faced budget cuts during the Great Recession and began to rely more heavily on tuition from foreign students .
Moreover , the view that science and religion are often in conflict is particularly common among Americans who are , themselves , not very religiously observant ( as measured by frequency of attendance at worship services ) . Some 73 % of adults who seldom or never attend religious services say science and religion are often in conflict . By contrast , among more religiously observant Americans – those who report that they attend religious services on a weekly basis – exactly half ( 50 % ) share the view that science and religion frequently conflict .
Among the top five nations with which the U.S. runs a trade deficit , Germany has a $ 912 per capita trade advantage with the U.S. ( total deficit divided by Germany 's total population ) , compared with China 's $ 266 per capita imbalance . This is largely because China 's large workforce churns out a high volume of low-value products for export to the U.S. , while Germany 's smaller workforce largely produces high-value products , such as automobiles , to sell to Americans .
In evaluating news coverage of different groups , pluralities of Americans say that coverage of poor people and Muslims is too negative , while somewhat smaller percentages say the same about coverage of blacks and Hispanics . Among eight groups tested , whites and middle-class people are the only groups that majorities say are treated fairly by the press ; 57 % say that news coverage of whites is generally fair while 56 % say the same about coverage of middle-class people . Notably , about a third ( 32 % ) say that coverage of wealthy people is too positive – the highest percentage for any group included in the survey . About as many see coverage of the wealthy as too positive as say it is generally fair ( 31 % ) .
In 2004 , China blocked access to the Chinese version in anticipation of the 15th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 . In the years since , the Chinese government has vacillated between blocking parts of the site and allowing access . The leaders of Wikipedia itself have generally stayed out of public policy disputes , with one notable exception . On Jan .18 , 2012 , the site went dark for 24 hours – along with thousands of other sites – to protest two anti-piracy laws before Congress known as SOPA ( Stop Online Piracy Act ) and PIPA ( PROTECT IP Act ) . Many believed these laws would have led to censorship on the Web . The move was partially responsible for the decision by congressional leaders two days later to postpone the legislation . The bills have yet to be reintroduced .
Some analysts say the Aereo TV case now before the U.S. Supreme Court could have disastrous consequences for local TV stations if the justices allow the company to capture broadcast programming without paying content producers . The New York Times ' David Carr warned , that in one such scenario , `` companies that own large groups of local stations like the Tribune Company and the Sinclair Broadcast Group would suddenly find themselves in possession of a much diminished collection of assets . '' If that potential threat looms , it has n't slowed these media companies from dramatically expanding their local television holdings in recent years . A decade ago , the number of stations owned by what are now the five largest local TV companies was 190 . Today , that number is 464 . In 2013 , alone , about 300 full-power local TV stations changed hands , at a cost of more than $ 8 billion . That is 195 more stations sold than in 2012 and more than four times the dollar value of the deals made in 2012 .
About one-in-ten Americans ( 11 % ) describe themselves as libertarian and know what the term means . Respondents were asked whether the term `` libertarian '' describes them well and — in a separate multiple-choice question — asked for the definition of `` someone whose political views emphasize individual freedom by limiting the role of government '' ; 57 % correctly answered the multiple-choice question , choosing `` libertarian '' from a list that included `` progressive , '' `` authoritarian , '' `` Unitarian '' and `` communist . '' On the self-description question 14 % said they were libertarian . For the purpose of this analysis we focus on the 11 % who both say they are libertarian and know the definition of the term . Men were about twice as likely as women to say the term libertarian describes them well and to know the meaning of the term ( 15 % vs. 7 % ) . More college graduates ( 15 % ) than those with no more than a high school education ( 7 % ) identified as libertarians . There also were partisan differences ; 14 % of independents and 12 % of Republicans said they are libertarian , compared with 6 % of Democrats .
From 2007 to 2010 , the median debt of households headed by an adult younger than 35 fell by 29 % , compared with a decline of just 8 % among households headed by adults ages 35 and older . Also , the share of younger households holding debt of any kind fell to 78 % , the lowest level since the government began collecting such data in 1983 .
The survey finds that Americans are less impressed now by the Democratic congressional leadership than when the party took control of Congress in January . While approval of the job Democratic leaders are doing has dipped only slightly – from 39 % in January to 34 % today – disapproval has grown substantially from 34 % to 49 % . Independents , in particular , express a much more negative opinion of Democratic congressional leaders . Fully 58 % disapprove of their job performance , up from 40 % in January .
Views of Hillary Clinton are more sharply drawn than those of other leading candidates in either political party . As many as 67 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters say Clinton is the Democratic candidate who first comes to mind when they hear the word tough and more than half ( 52 % ) associate Clinton with the word smart . No other candidate — Democrat or Republican — comes close to Clinton in being linked with each of these traits . Pluralities of Republican and Republican-leaning voters say Rudy Giuliani is the GOP candidate who comes to mind when the words tough and smart are mentioned . But just 39 % say Giuliani is the candidate who comes to mind when tough is raised , and 29 % link him , more than other leading GOP candidates , with the word smart . Clinton 's own image is largely defined by these two personality traits — just a third or fewer Democratic voters associate her with words such as optimistic , compassionate , energetic and down-to-earth . In fact , more Democratic voters associate the words optimistic , honest , energetic and down-to-earth with Obama than Clinton ; larger percentages also associate the word friendly with both Obama and John Edwards than with Clinton .
Many conservative Republicans have a negative view of scientists ' understanding of climate change . Majorities of conservative Republicans say climate scientists have little or no understanding of the causes of climate change or ways to address it . In comparison , majorities of the other political groups , including moderate and liberal Republicans , say climate scientists understand the causes of climate change and ways to address it very or fairly well .
And while a majority of the Japanese public maintains a favorable view of their longtime ally the United States , roughly half see U.S. power and influence as a major threat to Japan . An even larger share of the population ( 61 % ) sees America in decline , a harsher judgment of the U.S. than is found in China .
Americans and Germans are worlds apart on the overall state of their relationship . In the U.S. , seven-in-ten say the relationship is good , while 73 % in Germany say the relationship is bad . Among Germans , this constitutes a sharp elevation in negative assessments since 2017 , when 56 % said the relationship was bad .
Democrats are seen as the party that has more concern for Hispanics . Nearly half ( 47 % ) of Latino registered voters say this about the Democratic Party—down from 55 % in 2008 , but similar to the share on this question expressed by Latinos for much of the past decade . In contrast , very few see the Republican Party as more concerned about Latinos than the Democratic Party—just 6 % of all Latino registered voters and 18 % of Republican Latino registered voters say this .
With public support for the death penalty at its lowest point in more than four decades , the U.S. will end the year with its fewest executions in a quarter century . Nationwide , 20 inmates were executed in 2016 , according to a report from the Death Penalty Information Center . That 's the fewest since 1991 , when 14 inmates were executed . In every other year since 1992 , the U.S. executed at least 28 people .
India and Pakistan have been divided by decades of political animosities , a nuclear arms race and several wars . Indians and Pakistanis see each other 's country as the biggest threat to their national security , according to Pew Research 's 2012 polls in the respective countries . When asked to choose the most serious threat to their country , 41 % of Indians point to Pakistan . Among Pakistanis , 59 % pick India .
Governmental restrictions include not only national laws and policies , but also actions by local governments and officials , which we find account for a sizeable portion of government restrictions worldwide . In this regard , however , the situation in the Asia-Pacific region is mixed because it includes some countries and territories with low governmental restrictions — such as Japan and Taiwan — as well as some countries with very high government restrictions , such as China and Burma . Indeed , of the 10 countries with very high government restrictions , only two are in the Middle East and North Africa ( Saudi Arabia and Egypt ) , while seven are in Asia ( Iran , Uzbekistan , China , Burma , the Maldives , Malaysia and Brunei ) . Only one is in Sub-Saharan Africa ( Eritrea ) .
Yet there are key differences within the two parties as well . Among Republicans , 71 % of conservative Republicans oppose allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , more than twice the share of GOP moderates and liberals ( 34 % ) . A 55 % majority of moderate and liberal Republicans favor allowing same-sex marriage . Within the GOP , these ideological differences also are notable across voters ' primary preferences for the party 's 2016 presidential nominee . About half ( 52 % ) of GOP voters who back Donald Trump ( now the party 's presumptive nominee ) say they oppose same-sex marriage , compared with 70 % who preferred Ted Cruz and just 37 % who backed John Kasich .
With the jobless rate climbing , seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say they are hearing mostly bad news about the employment picture . About a quarter ( 27 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news , while just 1 percent say they are hearing mostly good news . Perceptions of news about prices , financial markets and real estate values are more mixed .
We asked the adults who use basic technologies whether it would be hard to give them up and users of the internet and mobile phones made clear those technologies feel increasingly essential , while more traditional technologies like landline phones and television are becoming easier to part with :
Recent comments by presidential candidate Rick Santorum have brought renewed attention to the role of religion in politics . In both 2010 and 2008 , narrow majorities said that churches and other houses of worship should keep out of political matters rather than express their views on social and political questions , according to polls by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press and the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life . That represented a change from earlier in the 2000s and the 1990s , when more Americans supported churches and other houses of worship speaking out on political matters . However , opinions in 201o were nearly identical to those in a 1968 Gallup survey , when 53 % said churches should keep out of political matters .
The Scooter Libby trial – a complex , inside-the-Beltway story – has yet to spark widespread interest among the public . Stories about the trial accounted for 3 - 4 % of the newshole during the last two weeks of January . The Libby trial has been the top news story for just 1 % of the public , and fewer than 10 % have been following it very closely . The public was much more intrigued with the circumstances surrounding the outing of CIA operative Valerie Plame back in July 2005 , when Karl Rove was still a central character .
Just 20 % trust the federal government . During the last three presidencies – through the final years of the George W. Bush administration and the presidencies of Barack Obama and Donald Trump , the share of Americans who say they trust the government just about always or most of the time has been below 30 % . Today , 20 % say they trust the government . While the share of Republicans who trust the government has increased during Trump 's time as president , only 28 % say they trust the government , compared with 12 % of Democrats .
Bush 's current 36 % job approval rating is the lowest of his presidency , down from 40 % in late October and 50 % at the start of the year . This decline reflects a souring of opinion among independents ­ just 29 % approve of the president 's job performance today , compared with 47 % at the start of the year . Democratic evaluations have been both stable and overwhelmingly negative over the course of the year . However , Bush is also now facing a significant loss of support within his own party ­ particularly among moderate Republicans . Overall , the proportion of Republicans who approve of Bush 's job in office has dropped from 89 % just after the 2004 election to 77 % today .
As an outbreak of swine flu spreads beyond Mexico into the United States and elsewhere , Americans have started to track the fast developing story closely . The story grew in prominence after the survey went into the field , but 25 % of the public say they followed reports about the deadly flu very closely and 21 % say this was the story — among six choices — that they followed most closely last week . At this point , the amount of interest is similar to several recent health scares , including the spread of a drug-resistant staph infection in the U.S. in late 2007 . The public also continues to closely track the financial problems facing the U.S. auto industry , particularly Chrysler and General Motors . Three-in-ten say they followed these stories very closely . For almost two-in-ten ( 18 % ) , this was the story they followed more closely than any other . Slightly more than one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they were following developments in the debate over whether to set up a bi-partisan commission to investigate the harsh interrogation techniques used by the CIA following the Sept. 11 , 2001 , terror attacks more closely than any other story . Two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they followed this story very closely . The same share ( 21 % ) say they were following events in Iraq very closely last week , while 10 % say this was the news they followed most closely .
The 2012 Pew Research survey also found that single mothers were much more likely than married mothers to say their ideal situation would be to work full time . Single mothers , often the sole provider in their household , have a much lower family income than married mothers , on average . It 's not surprising , then , that among unmarried mothers , nearly half ( 49 % ) say that their ideal situation would be to work full time , while 36 % say part-time work would be ideal . In contrast , married mothers see part-time work ( 53 % ) as more desirable than full-time work ( 23 % ) . The gap in views between married and unmarried mothers has widened significantly since 2007 , when these two groups of mothers had more similar views about their ideal work situation .
The public 's perceptions of economic news , which took a decided downturn in August , are much less negative today . Currently , 48 % say they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy , down from 58 % in October and 67 % in August . Still , very few Americans say news about the economy is mostly good ( 3 % ) . Nearly half ( 48 % ) see the news as a mix of good and bad .
But despite the strong labor market , wage growth has lagged economists ' expectations . In fact , despite some ups and downs over the past several decades , today 's real average wage ( that is , the wage after accounting for inflation ) has about the same purchasing power it did 40 years ago . And what wage gains there have been have mostly flowed to the highest-paid tier of workers .
People in countries with high per-capita levels of carbon emissions are less intensely concerned about climate change . Among the nations we surveyed , the U.S. has the highest carbon emissions per capita , but it is among the least concerned about climate change and its potential impact . Others in this category are Australia , Canada and Russia . Publics in Africa , Latin America and Asia , many of which have very low emissions per capita , are frequently the most concerned about the negative effects of climate change . Climate change is not seen as a distant threat . A global median of 51 % say climate change is already harming people around the world , while another 28 % believe it will do so in the next few years . This view is especially common in Latin America . For instance , fully 90 % of Brazilians say climate change is harming people now . Europeans are also particularly likely to hold this opinion . However , only 41 % of Americans believe people are being harmed by climate change today .
The survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted April 4 - 15 , 2012 among 1,514 adults nationwide , finds 52 % offering a favorable opinion of the Supreme Court , down from 58 % in 2010 and the previous low of 57 % , in 2005 and 2007 . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they have an unfavorable view , which approaches the high reached in 2005 ( 30 % ) .
Two-thirds of Americans say the use of marijuana should be legal , reflecting a steady increase over the past decade , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The share of U.S. adults who oppose legalization has fallen from 52 % in 2010 to 32 % today .
In America , fathers , on average , have about three hours more leisure time per week than mothers . This `` leisure gap '' has been consistent at least over the past decade . What are dads doing with their extra time ? For the most part , they 're watching TV , according to new Pew Research Center analysis of data from the government-sponsored American Time Use Survey ( ATUS ) . Most of the gap is found in front of the television set . Fathers spend 2.8 hours more each week than mothers watching TV or using other media . Fathers also spend more time playing sports or exercising than do mothers , while mothers spend more of their leisure time in social activities such as attending or hosting parties .
Overall interest in news about the Haiti earthquake is on par with interest in the tsunami that struck the Indian Ocean in December 2004 . Fully 60 % say they followed news about the earthquake very closely ; about the same percentage ( 58 % ) said they followed news about the tsunami in the Indian Ocean very closely in January 2005 . Public attentiveness to both events far surpasses interest in other overseas natural disasters in recent years . Somewhat more people paid very close attention to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 ( 70 % ) . The public is not only closely tracking news from Haiti : In the days following the quake , 18 % report they or someone in their household made a donation to those affected by the earthquake , while another 30 % say they plan to donate . Americans took full advantage of new technologies to give to the victims of the earthquake . While 39 % of those who gave made a donation in person , 23 % gave on the internet and 14 % gave via text message ; by comparison , 12 % gave by phone and just 5 % made their donation through the mail .
Christians are declining as a share of the U.S. population , and the number of U.S. adults who do not identify with any organized religion has grown . While the U.S. remains home to more Christians than any other country , the percentage of Americans identifying as Christian dropped from 78 % in 2007 to 71 % in 2014 . By contrast , the religiously unaffiliated have surged seven percentage points in that time span to make up 23 % of U.S. adults last year . This trend has been driven in large part by Millennials , 35 % of whom are religious `` nones . '' The rise of the `` nones '' is not a story unique to the U.S. : The unaffiliated are now the second-largest religious group in 48 % of the world 's nations . Americans are well aware of this shift : 72 % say religion 's influence on public life is waning , and most who say this see it as a bad thing .
During the early stages of the outbreak 's economic fallout , 90 % of the decrease in employment – or 2.6 million of the total loss of 2.9 million between February and March – arose from positions that could not be teleworked , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of federal government data .
NATO publics support economic aid , but do not favor arming Ukraine . Most people in the eight NATO countries surveyed ( a median of 70 % ) are happy to see Western countries send economic aid to Ukraine . Many also support Ukraine joining NATO and , in half the EU countries surveyed , favor Ukraine joining the European Union . But people in these NATO countries made it clear that they did not support sending arms to Ukraine – a median of just 41 % supported doing so . Skepticism about sending arms was highest in Germany , Spain and Italy , while support for arming Ukraine was more common in Poland , the U.S. and Canada . The West and Russia disagree over what has caused the conflict . A median of 39 % across the eight NATO countries surveyed say that Russia is to blame for the crisis in Ukraine , more than blame the pro-Russian separatists ( median of 18 % ) , the Ukrainian government ( 9 % ) or Western countries ( 7 % ) . Ukrainians agree , with 45 % blaming Russia for the violence in eastern Ukraine . However , half in Russia blame Western countries , such as those in Europe and the U.S. , for the Ukraine crisis . Around a quarter in Russia ( 26 % ) blame the current government in Kyiv , but only 2 % name Russia as the primary cause of the conflict .
The overall partisan gap between Republicans and Democrats in views of Kavanaugh 's nomination is as large as it has been for any nominee in recent years . Republicans and Republican leaners ( 73 % ) are 57-percentage points more likely than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 16 % ) to say they think the Senate should confirm Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court . This is about the same as the partisan gap in views of Neil Gorsuch in February 2017 ( 55 points ) , but larger than for previous appointments made by George W. Bush and Obama . For example , in June 2009 there was a 36-point gap between the shares of Republicans ( 30 % ) and Democrats ( 66 % ) who supported the confirmation of Obama 's nominee Sonya Sotomayor to the Supreme Court . And in September 2005 , the partisan gap in views of Bush 's nominee John Roberts was about half of what it is today for Kavanaugh ( 30 points vs. 57 points ) .
Partisans have starkly different ideas about what steps the federal government should take to improve life in the future . Democrats and Republicans differ notably in the policies they believe the federal government should enact to improve life for future generations . About two-thirds of Republicans ( 65 % ) , for example , say reducing the number of undocumented immigrants coming into the U.S. should be a top priority for the federal government , but just 17 % of Democrats agree . And while 83 % of Democrats say providing high-quality , affordable health care for all should be a top priority , a much smaller share of Republicans ( 48 % ) agree .
In a few weeks , world leaders will gather in Paris to negotiate a climate change agreement that will frame the global agenda on this issue for the next decade and beyond . As a new Pew Research Center survey illustrates , there is a global consensus that climate change is a significant challenge . Majorities in all 40 nations polled say it is a serious problem , and a global median of 54 % consider it a very serious problem . Moreover , a median of 78 % support the idea of their country limiting greenhouse gas emissions as part of an international agreement in Paris . However , according to most respondents , confronting climate change will entail more than just policy changes ; it will also require significant changes in how people live . A global median of 67 % say that in order to reduce the effects of climate change , people will have to make major changes in their lives . A median of just 22 % believe technology can solve this problem without requiring major changes . Even in the U.S. , a country known for its technological innovations , 66 % believe people will need to significantly alter their lifestyles . In most countries , publics tend to believe that much of the burden for dealing with climate change should be shouldered by wealthier countries . Across the nations polled , a median of 54 % agree with the statement `` Rich countries , such as the U.S. , Japan and Germany , should do more than developing countries because they have produced most of the world 's greenhouse gas emissions so far . '' A median of just 38 % believe that `` Developing countries should do just as much as rich countries because they will produce most of the world 's greenhouse gas emissions in the future . '' However , in six countries , half or more say developing nations should do just as much . Half of Americans hold this view , while 40 % think rich countries should do more . Overall , there is little relationship between how wealthy a society is and its people 's views on this question .
Regional growth patterns have changed some following the start of the Great Recession . While counties in the South continued to account for the largest share of the nation 's Hispanic population growth ( 43 % between 2007 and 2014 , a small decline from 44 % between 2000 and 2007 ) , counties in the Northeast – particularly those in New Jersey , New York and Pennsylvania – accounted for a larger share of national Hispanic population growth since 2007 than in 2000 - 2007 ( 14 % vs. 11 % , respectively ) . 2 There was a small decline for all of the other regions of the U.S. during these periods .
Fifty years after passage of the landmark law that rewrote U.S. immigration policy , nearly 59 million immigrants have arrived in the United States , pushing the country 's foreign-born share to a near record 14 % . For the past half-century , these modern-era immigrants and their descendants have accounted for just over half the nation 's population growth and have reshaped its racial and ethnic composition .
Before 2009 , Republicans had appointed 10 Asian judges , while Democrats appointed six . During Obama 's presidency the number of Asian federal judges greatly increased : About half ( 17 ) of the 33 Asian American judges to ever serve on the federal bench were appointed by Obama .
Parents generally get positive ratings from teens about their efforts to tackle online harassment and bullying . Roughly six-in-ten teens ( 59 % ) say parents are doing an excellent or good job at addressing cyberbullying – a notably positive assessment , considering how teens rate other groups measured in this survey . Teens are far less likely to rate the anti-bullying efforts of elected officials , social media companies and teachers positively .
Americans strongly believe that the nation 's immigration system is due for an overhaul , but that widely-held view is not matched by consensus on how to deal with illegal and legal immigration . Three-quarters ( 75 % ) say they think the system needs at least `` major changes , '' including 35 % who say it needs `` to be completely rebuilt , '' according to a Pew Research survey in May .
A sizable share of all black people ( 77 % ) also say the Bible is the word of God ( as opposed to having been `` written by men '' ) , compared with 57 % of whites and 65 % of Hispanics . Among those in the historically black Protestant tradition , 85 % say they believe the Bible is the word of God , a level more comparable to that seen among those in the evangelical Protestant tradition ( 88 % ) , Mormons ( 91 % ) and Jehovah 's Witnesses ( 94 % ) than among Catholics ( 64 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 62 % ) .
An 83 % majority of the public says vaccines for diseases such as measles , mumps and rubella ( MMR ) are safe for healthy children , while about one-in-ten ( 9 % ) think such vaccines are not safe . An additional 7 % volunteer that they do n't know .
There is broad support among Americans ( 69 % ) for automatically registering all eligible citizens to vote . By contrast , fewer ( 42 % ) support removing people from registration lists if they have not recently voted or confirmed their registration .
Much like ride-hailing apps , the legal and regulatory status of home-sharing services has been the subject of much debate in cities around the country . But in contrast to ride-hailing , relatively few Americans have been following the debate over home-sharing services : 22 % of Americans have heard something about this issue , with just 6 % indicating that they have heard `` a lot '' about it . Even users of home-sharing services themselves are not following this issue particularly closely : Just 19 % of home-sharing users have heard `` a lot '' about it , while 37 % have heard `` a little . '' But although home-sharing users have not been following the legal debate over these services with nearly the same intensity as their ride-hailing counterparts , those home-sharing users who have been following this issue tend to feel that these services should be both legal and tax-free for owners . Among home-sharing users who are aware of the legal debate over these services , 56 % believe that these services should be legal , and that owners should not have to pay any local hotel or lodging taxes ; just 31 % believe that owners should be able to legally rent out these services but should have to pay taxes for the privilege of doing so .
Amid ongoing controversies and investigations into allegations of links between the Trump presidential campaign and Russia , attitudes toward the U.S. have turned more positive in Russia . Following the outbreak of the Ukraine crisis in 2014 , ratings for both the U.S. as a country and for President Obama plummeted . However , since 2015 – the last time the Center polled in Russia – favorable opinions of the U.S. have become much more common there . And President Trump gets more-positive reviews in Russia than either of his predecessors ever did .
While there is widespread public approval of U.S. negotiations with North Korea , nearly half of Americans ( 49 % ) say North Korea 's leadership is not serious about addressing international concerns about their country 's nuclear enrichment program . Fewer ( 38 % ) say North Korea is serious about addressing these concerns . Views of whether North Korea is serious about addressing concerns over its nuclear program are similar among Republicans and Democrats . About half in both parties ( 50 % of Republicans and 49 % of Democrats ) say they are not serious , while 36 % of Republicans and 40 % of Democrats say North Korean leaders are serious .
A majority of Americans ( 54 % ) disapprove of the U.S. government 's collection of telephone and internet data as part of anti-terrorism efforts , while 42 % approve of the program . Democrats are divided on the program , while Republicans and independents are more likely to disapprove than approve , according to a survey we conducted in spring 2014 .
About one-quarter of the U.S. foreign-born population is unauthorized immigrants , while the majority of the nation 's immigrants are in the U.S. legally . Naturalized citizens account for the largest portion of the foreign-born population ( 45 % ) .
The survey finds little support for reducing spending on policing . Just 25 % of Americans say spending on policing in their area should be decreased , with only 12 % saying it should be decreased a lot ; another 14 % say it should be reduced a little .
Still , there are modest signs of a potential for improvement . While just one-third of Turks have confidence that President Obama will do the right thing in world affairs , this is a significant increase from 2008 , when only 2 % voiced confidence in then-President Bush . And while most Turks continue to oppose U.S.-led anti-terrorism efforts and most still believe the U.S. could be a military threat to their country some day , these views are less common than they were in the waning years of the Bush administration .
More Millennial households are in poverty than households headed by any other generation . In 2016 , an estimated 5.3 million of the nearly 17 million U.S. households living in poverty were headed by a Millennial , compared with 4.2 million headed by a Gen Xer and 5.0 million headed by a Baby Boomer . The relatively high number of Millennial households in poverty partly reflects the fact that the poverty rate among households headed by a young adult has been rising over the past half century while dramatically declining among households headed by those 65 and older . In addition , Millennials are more racially and ethnically diverse than the other adult generations , and a greater share of Millennial households are headed by minorities , who tend to have higher poverty rates . Millennial heads of households are also more likely to be unmarried , which is associated with higher poverty . Millennial households dominate the ranks of the nation 's renters . Last year , Millennials headed 18.4 million of the estimated 45.9 million households that rent their home . By comparison , only 12.9 million Generation X and 10.4 million Boomer households were renters . Among households headed by a member of the Silent or Greatest generation , 4.1 million were renters .
Looking at the week 's other news , 13 % say they very closely followed news about an Italian court reversing the murder conviction of Amanda Knox and her return to the United States ; 10 % say this is the story they followed most closely . Women paid greater attention to this story than men ; 14 % of women say this was the news they followed most closely last week , compared with 7 % of men . News about Knox accounted for 7 % of coverage . And , as the U.S. marked 10 years of fighting in Afghanistan , the situation there garnered no spike in interest . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed this news very closely , comparable to interest in early September ; 8 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about Afghanistan accounted for 4 % of coverage , according to PEJ . A quarter of the public ( 25 % ) says they followed election news very closely last week , a level of interest little changed since late summer . Boosted by heavy coverage of the announcement by New Jersey Gov . Chris Christie that he would not jump into the race , the campaign made up 18 % of the newshole measured by PEJ .
Dads see parenting as central to their identity . Dads are just as likely as moms to say that parenting is extremely important to their identity . Some 57 % of fathers said this in a 2015 survey by the Center , compared with 58 % of mothers . Like moms , many dads also seem to appreciate the benefits of parenthood : 54 % reported that parenting is rewarding all of the time , as did 52 % of moms . Meanwhile , 46 % of fathers and 41 % of mothers said they find parenting enjoyable all of the time .
In addition , nearly half of AAAS scientists – 47 % – use social media to talk about science or read about scientific developments at least some of the time . Some 24 % of these AAAS scientists blog about science and research .
The majority of parents have media rules for both content and time . However , parents that only have one type of rule are more likely to make rules about media content rather than the time spent with the media device . If the parent does not institute both types of rules , he or she is more likely to have no media rules at all than to create rules around how much time their teen can spend using television , video games , or the internet .
The survey also found a widespread belief among LGBT adults that the Obama administration , and the Democratic Party , are generally supportive of LGBT people : 63 % said the Obama administration was generally friendly toward lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender people ; while just 6 % said the administration was generally unfriendly ( 30 % said it was neutral ) . LGBT views of the administration track closely with views of the Democratic Party ( 57 % friendly ) . By contrast , 76 % of LGBT adults say the Republican Party is unfriendly toward lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender people .
Overwhelmingly , Indians give their government high marks for its handling of the economy ; 85 % say it is doing a good job . And most are optimistic about the future , with 64 % saying the economy will improve over the next 12 months .
Americans continue to be more likely to get news through mobile devices than through desktop or laptop computers . Roughly six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 57 % ) often get news this way , compared with 30 % who often do so on a desktop or laptop computer , according to a Pew Research Center survey . The share of Americans who often get news on a mobile device is more than double the 21 % who did so in 2013 , the first time we asked this question . At the same time , the portion of Americans who often get news on a desktop or laptop computer has remained relatively stable during this period .
Nearly all Hispanic adults born in the United States of immigrant parents report they are fluent in English . By contrast , only a small minority of their parents describe themselves as skilled English speakers . This finding of a dramatic increase in English-language ability from one generation of Hispanics to the next emerges from a new analysis of six Pew Hispanic Center surveys conducted this decade among a total of more than 14,000 Latino adults . The surveys show that fewer than one-in-four ( 23 % ) Latino immigrants reports being able to speak English very well . However , fully 88 % of their U.S.-born adult children report that they speak English very well . Among later generations of Hispanic adults , the figure rises to 94 % . Reading ability in English shows a similar trend . As fluency in English increases across generations , so , too , does the regular use of English by Hispanics , both at home and at work . For most immigrants , English is not the primary language they use in either setting . But for their grown children , it is .
For news about politics and government , social media may be for the Millennial generation what local TV is for the Baby Boomer generation . Six-in-ten ( 61 % ) online Millennials say they get political news on Facebook in a given week , a much larger percentage than any other source for news . That 's a stark contrast to internet-using Baby Boomers , for whom local TV tops the list . These trends also reflect a major shift taking place in the news world , as social networking sites increasingly become an integral part of Americans ' news experience .
In 2015 , 27.4 % of black applicants and 19.2 % of Hispanic applicants were denied mortgages , compared with about 11 % of white and Asian applicants , according to our analysis of data gathered under the federal Home Mortgage Disclosure Act . In fact , throughout the boom , bust and recovery phases of the housing cycle , blacks have been denied home loans at higher rates than most other racial groups ( the exception being Native Americans , and even then only in the last few years ) , and Hispanics have been denied at higher rates than non-Hispanics .
Russian confidence in U.S. President Barack Obama has also collapsed in the past few years . Just 11 % now say they have a lot or some confidence in Obama 's ability to handle international affairs , while 86 % have little or no confidence . But Obama is not alone in falling out of Russian favor . Russian confidence in German Chancellor Angela Merkel and favorable views toward NATO , the EU and Germany all hit new lows in 2015 . Meanwhile , our 2014 poll found 44 % of Russians had confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping , while 34 % had no confidence and 22 % had no opinion . Russians clearly favor China over the U.S. on other measures , too . By a margin of 37 % to 24 % , Russians say that China , not the U.S. , is the world 's leading economy . And 44 % of Russians say that China either already has replaced or will replace the U.S. as the world 's leading superpower , while just 35 % say this will never happen .
Latinos of Mexican origin are by far the largest national origin group , representing about 60 percent of the Hispanic population . Puerto Ricans are the next largest and they are far behind , making up just 10 percent of all Latinos . The rest of the Hispanic population is divided among persons who trace their roots to many different nations .
In Pakistan , the Palestinian territories , Jordan , Malaysia and Senegal , roughly half or more of the full population says that laws in their country should strictly follow the teachings of the Quran . By contrast , in Burkina Faso , Turkey , Lebanon and Indonesia , less than a quarter agree . And in many of these countries where non-Muslims make up a significant portion of the population , there are strong disagreements between major religious groups on this issue . For example , a 42 % plurality of Nigerians think laws should not be influenced by the Quran , while 27 % think laws should strictly follow the teachings of the Quran . However , among Nigerian Muslims , 52 % say national laws should conform to Islamic law , compared with only 2 % among Nigerian Christians . Half or more in four of the 10 countries surveyed say that laws in their countries should strictly follow the teachings of the Quran . This opinion is especially prevalent in Pakistan ( 78 % ) , one of only five declared Islamic Republics in the world , and the Palestinian territories ( 65 % ) . Support for strict adherence has grown in the Palestinian territories . In 2011 , only 36 % of Palestinians said their laws should strictly follow the Quran . In Jordan , which is a constitutional monarchy , 54 % say their laws should strictly follow the Quran . Another 38 % say Jordan 's laws should follow the values and principles of Islam but not strictly follow the Quran . Just 7 % believe that laws should not be influenced by the Islamic holy book . Since 2012 , there has been an 18-percentage-point decline in the number of Jordanians saying the Quran should be strictly followed in making national laws . Roughly half of Malaysians ( 52 % ) favor strict adherence when it comes to national laws ; fully 78 % of Muslim Malays hold this view , but only 5 % of Buddhist Malays agree . Instead , 38 % of the Buddhist minority in Malaysia prefers that laws not follow the Quran , though a similar percentage ( 37 % ) does not offer an opinion . Senegalese are split on the issue : 49 % say that laws should closely abide by the Quran , while an equal percentage says that laws should either not strictly follow ( 33 % ) or not be influenced by the Quran ( 16 % ) .
Mobile technology has spread rapidly around the globe . Today , it is estimated that more than 5 billion people have mobile devices , and over half of these connections are smartphones . But the growth in mobile technology to date has not been equal , either across nations or within them . People in advanced economies are more likely to have mobile phones – smartphones in particular – and are more likely to use the internet and social media than people in emerging economies . For example , a median of 76 % across 18 advanced economies surveyed have smartphones , compared with a median of only 45 % in emerging economies . Smartphone ownership can vary widely by country , even across advanced economies . While around nine-in-ten or more South Koreans , Israelis and Dutch people own smartphones , ownership rates are closer to six-in-ten in other developed nations like Poland , Russia and Greece . In emerging economies , too , smartphone ownership rates vary substantially , from highs of 60 % in South Africa and Brazil to just around four-in-ten in Indonesia , Kenya and Nigeria . Among the surveyed countries , ownership is lowest in India , where only 24 % report having a smartphone .
Two-thirds of Muslims in the United States ( 67 % ) say the country needs to continue making changes to give blacks equal rights with whites , a higher percentage than the share of Americans in general who say this ( 57 % ) . Muslim Americans are also more likely than the general public to say there is a lot of discrimination against black people in the U.S. About seven-in-ten U.S. Muslims ( 71 % ) say this , compared with 59 % of the overall population , according to a 2017 Pew Research Center survey . Still , even when those who identify solely as black are excluded , U.S. Muslims are more likely than Americans overall to say more changes are needed for black people to have equal rights with whites ( 66 % vs. 53 % ) and are more likely to say there is a lot of discrimination against blacks ( 66 % vs 56 % ) .
The number of Latino eligible voters and their share of the overall electorate have hit new highs . More than 29 million Latinos are eligible to vote nationwide in 2018 , making up 12.8 % of all eligible voters . Between 2014 and 2018 , an additional 4 million Hispanics became eligible voters ( U.S. citizens ages 18 and older ) . At the same time , the Latino voter turnout rate in midterm elections has declined since 2006 . In 2018 , Latino registered voters show signs of being more engaged in the midterm elections than in past midterm seasons . More Hispanic voters today say they have given `` quite a lot '' of thought to the coming election than said so in 2014 and 2010 , and 55 % of these voters say they are more enthusiastic about voting this year than in previous congressional elections .
The Daily Show attracts a much younger news consumer than cable and network news shows . The median age of Web-using adults who got news from The Daily Show was 36 years last year , similar to that of its then-companion show , The Colbert Report ( 33 years ) . This is much younger than for other television news shows , both on cable and broadcast networks , including the network evening news programs and cable news shows like O'Reilly , Anderson Cooper 360 and the Rachel Maddow Show .
Currently 62 % say it is more important for the federal government to investigate possible terrorist threats , even if that intrudes on personal privacy . Just 34 % say it is more important for the government not to intrude on personal privacy , even if that limits its ability to investigate possible terrorist threats .
More than two-thirds of special immigrant visas have gone to Afghans ( 48,601 ) since fiscal 2007 – the first year visas were awarded under the programs – while Iraqis have received 21,961 such visas . Totals include visas issued to the principal applicants who worked for the U.S. government , as well as their spouses and unmarried children younger than 21 . ( These special visas make up a small slice – about 1 % – of the overall number of U.S. immigrant visas awarded from fiscal years 2007 to 2017 . )
Along with the debt debate , the public continued to closely follow news about an interrelated topic – the nation 's struggling economy . More than four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say they followed news about the economy very closely , a level similar to interest in economic news in recent weeks ; 12 % say this was the news they followed most closely . More general economic news accounted for 4 % of coverage , according to PEJ . Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they very closely followed news about another economic story – the recent ups and downs in the stock market . This was the top story for 2 % and made up 1 % of coverage . About a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) say they very closed followed news about the aftermath of the bombing and shooting attack in Norway that killed more than 70 people . That 's about the same level of interest shown one week earlier immediately following the July 22 attacks . Just more than one-in-ten ( 12 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely . The Norway terror attacks accounted for 8 % of the newshole . Almost two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they followed news about the 2012 presidential campaign very closely , a level of interest comparable to recent weeks ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Election news made up 1 % of coverage . About one-in-ten ( 12 % ) say they very closely followed news about the labor agreement between the National Football League and its players union that allows the start of pre-season training . This was the top story for 8 % and made up 2 % of coverage . About two-in-ten men ( 18 % ) say they followed this news very closely , compared with 7 % of women .
Across the 11 countries surveyed , mobile phone users fall into two camps about whether their phone is something they do n't always need or something they could n't live without . Kenyans , South Africans , Jordanians , Tunisians and Lebanese who use a mobile phone are more likely to say their phone is something they could n't live without . But in the six other countries , larger shares say they do n't always need their phone .
The second most closely followed news story , far behind the shootings , was the situation in Iraq — 27 % of the public followed events in Iraq very closely and 15 % said this was the news story they followed more closely than any other last week . Over the past month , the public has consistently expressed greater interest in the war itself than in the policy debate
Conservative Republicans and Republican leaners ( who make up about two-thirds of all Republicans and GOP leaners ) overwhelmingly favor expanding the U.S.-Mexico border wall ( 91 % favor ) . Moderate and liberal Republicans are somewhat less supportive ( 69 % favor ) . And support for expanding the wall is much greater among older adults . About half of those ages 50 and older ( 48 % ) favor substantially expanding the border wall ; just 25 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 36 % of those 30 to 49 say the same .
Currently , 49 % of Americans say their bigger concern about the government 's anti-terrorism policies is that they have not gone far enough to protect the country , while 33 % say their bigger concern is that those policies have gone too far in restricting civil liberties .
Fewer than half of Black ( 41 % ) and Latino ( 44 % ) adults now say they are angry about the state of the country , a substantial drop from the 72 % and 67 % , respectively , who said the same in June . White adults also showed a smaller drop since June , from 72 % to 59 % . Meanwhile , about half of Asians ( 51 % ) say as of November that they are angry about the state of the country ( the share of Asian adults who said they felt angry in June is not shown due to insufficient sample size ) .
Pope Francis , leader of the world 's nearly 1.1 billion Catholics , enjoys broad support across much of the world , according to a new survey report by the Pew Research Center . A median of 60 % across 43 nations have a favorable view of the pontiff . Only 11 % see the pope unfavorably , and 28 % give no rating . Francis ' strongest support comes from Europe , where a median of 84 % offer a favorable rating . Latin America – the pope 's home region – also gives him high marks , with 72 % saying they have a positive opinion .1 However , Francis is less well-known in other parts of the world . In Africa , 44 % say they like the pope , but 40 % offer no rating . Asians are similarly unfamiliar with Francis , with 41 % supporting him and 45 % expressing no opinion . The Middle East is the most negative toward Francis , with a quarter viewing him unfavorably . However , an equal number ( 25 % ) give a positive rating and a plurality ( 41 % ) do not rate him .
Despite large and persistent gaps between blacks and whites on virtually every indicator of economic well-being , about half of all whites say the average black person is about as well off financially or doing better than the average white person , according to a survey released last week by the Pew Research Center . The survey found that 53 % of whites say that , on average , blacks are `` about as well off '' financially as whites ( 43 % ) or say blacks are doing better ( 10 % ) . But when you ask black Americans the same question , about six-in-ten blacks ( 59 % ) say , on average , blacks are worse off financially than whites . Among blacks , about a third ( 36 % ) say the average black person is doing better or about as well off as the average white person .
The analysis also finds that when it comes to using the internet,1 the digital divide between Latinos and whites is smaller than what it had been just a few years ago . Between 2009 and 2012 , the share of Latino adults who say they go online at least occasionally increased 14 percentage points , rising from 64 % to 78 % .2 Among whites , internet use rates also increased , but only by half as much—from 80 % in 2009 to 87 % in 2012 . While Latinos use mobile and social networking technologies at rates similar to those of other groups , they lag whites when it comes to owning a desktop or laptop computer or accessing the internet ( with or without a mobile device ) . According to the Pew Research analysis :
For a large majority of Americans , the country 's openness to people from around the world `` is essential to who we are as a nation . '' In a new Pew Research Center survey , 68 % say America 's openness to foreigners is a defining characteristic of the nation , while just 26 % say `` if America is too open to people from all over the world , we risk losing our identity as a nation . '' The belief that openness to people from around the world is essential is widely shared across most demographic groups . However , Democrats and younger people are considerably more likely than others to hold this view , according to the national survey , conducted Sept. 18 - 24 among 1,754 adults . Among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents , an overwhelming share ( 85 % ) thinks America 's openness is essential to who we are as a nation . Republicans and Republican leaners are divided : 47 % say America 's openness is essential , while 44 % say being too open carries with it the risk of losing our identity as a nation . These views are virtually unchanged from the last time the Center asked this question in summer 2017 .
The vast majority of U.S. Muslims say belief in God is essential ( 85 % ) to their religious identity , according to a Pew Research Center survey of 1,001 U.S. Muslims conducted between January and May of this year . An additional 10 % say belief in God is `` important but not essential . '' For many , being Muslim also is tied to love for the Prophet Muhammad ( 72 % say this is essential to what being Muslim means to them ) . About six-in-ten consider as essential the commitment to observe the religious teachings in the Quran and Sunnah ( 59 % ) , two important sources of guidance for the Islamic faithful .
More than four-in-ten Millennials ( currently ages 22 to 37 ) are Hispanic ( 21 % ) , African American ( 13 % ) , Asian ( 7 % ) or another race ( 3 % ) . Among Gen Xers , 39 % are nonwhites .
Women who own guns are less likely than their male counterparts to say they go sport shooting or hunting , though substantial shares of women do so . About four-in-ten female gun owners ( 43 % ) say they go shooting or to a gun range often or sometimes ; 58 % of men who own guns say the same . And while 37 % of male gun owners say they go hunting at least sometimes , 28 % of women who own guns do so .
The share of Americans who live in middle class households is shrinking . The share of U.S. adults living in middle-income households fell to 50 % in 2015 , after more than four decades in which those households served as the nation 's economic majority . And the financial gaps between middle- and upper-income Americans have widened , with upper-income households holding 49 % of U.S. aggregate household income ( up from 29 % in 1970 ) and seven times as much wealth as middle-income households ( up from three times as much in 1983 ) . Most Americans say the government does n't do enough to help the middle class , and neither political party is widely viewed as a champion for middle-class interests .
Europe in 2015 saw a rise in social hostilities involving religion , particularly against the continent 's Muslims , according to a new Pew Research Center study on global religious restrictions . Muslims faced social hostilities in seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) countries in Europe , an increase from 58 % the year before .
Across the quarter century span for which comparisons are available , the GSS and Center phone polls produced very similar estimates of the share of American adults identifying with the Democratic or Republican parties . Both sets of surveys measure party affiliation with a simple question asking respondents whether they are Democrat , Republican or independent .6 The average difference in point estimates across the high and lower response rate surveys is 1.4 points for Democratic identification and 1.6 points for Republican identification .
It 's also important to remember that not all employment is created equal . Before the Great Recession , fewer than 20 % of all part-time workers said they were working less than 35 hours a week for economic reasons , such as slack demand or inability to find full-time work . During the slump , that share jumped to a third of all part-timers ; the `` involuntary part-time '' share has fallen since , to 22.2 % of all part-timers in January , but still is above typical pre-recession levels .
Many also have been following news about the U.S. economy very closely . About a third ( 34 % ) say they followed economic news very closely last week , and a week prior , economic news ( 36 % following very closely ) rivaled interest in the campaign ( 38 % following very closely ) .
In part because whites now comprise a smaller share of students in the public schools , white students are now more likely to be exposed to minority students . In 1993 - 94 , fully one-third ( 34 % ) of all white students attended a nearly all-white school ( this report defines a school as `` nearly all-white '' if fewer than 5 % of the students are non-white ) . By 2005 - 06 , just one in five white students ( 21 % ) was attending a nearly all-white school . The number of nearly all-white public schools fell by 35 % , from 25,603 in 1993 - 94 to 16,769 in 2005 - 06 . But even as the decrease in the white share of the public school population has led to a greater exposure of white students to minority students , it has also led to a diminished exposure of black and Hispanic students to white students . Roughly three-in-ten Hispanic ( 29 % ) and black ( 31 % ) students attended schools in 2005 - 06 that were nearly all-minority ( by this report 's definition , a `` nearly all-minority '' school is one in which fewer than 5 % of the students are white ) , and these percentages were both somewhat higher than they had been in 1993 - 94 , when they stood at 25 % for Hispanic students and 28 % for black students . The number of nearly all-minority public schools almost doubled in this time period , increasing from 5,498 in 1993 - 94 to 10,135 in 2005 - 06 .
People tend to have a more favorable opinion of the EU than of the European Parliament . Across 10 surveyed EU countries , a median of 62 % see the EU favorably , compared with a median of 50 % who see the European Parliament favorably . The UK and Greece stand out for their negative assessments of both . In two of the EU 's biggest countries – France and Germany – majorities have a favorable view of the EU , but views of the European Parliament are divided .
Home by choice or necessity ? Married stay-at-home mothers with working husbands are more likely than single or cohabiting mothers to say caring for family is their primary reason for being home . Single and cohabiting stay-at-home mothers are more likely than married stay-at-home mothers with working husbands to say they are ill or disabled , unable to find a job , or enrolled in school . Overall , a growing share of stay-at-home mothers say they are home because they can not find a job : 6 % in 2012 , versus 1 % in 2000 .
While the general sentiment among police that the media treat them unfairly is shared across gender , racial and ethnic lines , some officers feel more strongly about it than others . White officers ( 43 % ) , for example , are more likely than their black colleagues ( 34 % ) to strongly agree that the media treat police unfairly . Among Hispanic officers , 40 % strongly agree . Age is also correlated with views about the media . While 46 % of officers ages 18 to 44 strongly agree that the media treat the police unfairly , fewer of those ages 45 and older ( 36 % ) express the same view . Police department administrators have a different view on the media than rank-and-file officers and sergeants . Only 29 % of administrators strongly agree that the media treat police unfairly , compared with roughly four-in-ten rank-and-file officers and sergeants .
Congregants may not be physically sitting in the pews each Sunday , but their house of worship is most likely streaming or recording its services so that people can access them virtually . Among U.S. adults who report attending religious services at least monthly , 82 % say that the place of worship they most often attend is streaming or recording its services so that people can watch them online or on TV . About one-in-eight ( 12 % ) say their primary place of worship has not done this , while the remainder say they do n't know ( 5 % ) . More than eight-in-ten churchgoing Christians say their primary church offers streaming or recorded services online or on TV , including roughly nine-in-ten evangelical ( 92 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 86 % ) who say this . Most Catholics ( 79 % ) and Protestants in the historically black tradition ( 73 % ) also say their churches are making religious services available remotely .
U.S. Catholics are split down the middle politically . Around half of Catholic registered voters ( 48 % ) describe themselves as Republicans or say they lean toward the Republican Party , while roughly the same share ( 47 % ) identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party , according to Pew Research Center polls in 2018 and 2019 .
We do n't yet have a way to quantify how much of TV news viewing has shifted from the broadcast programs to the web — perhaps the networks themselves can do this — but it 's far from trivial . Take a look at these numbers from our media consumption survey : 45 % of young people report watching TV news video clips online at least sometimes . And 41 % of those ages 30 - 49 say they do , too .
The most common type of harassment youth encounter online is name-calling . Some 42 % of teens say they have been called offensive names online or via their cellphone . Additionally , about a third ( 32 % ) of teens say someone has spread false rumors about them on the internet , while smaller shares have had someone other than a parent constantly ask where they are , who they 're with or what they 're doing ( 21 % ) or have been the target of physical threats online ( 16 % ) .
According to the Pew Hispanic Center 's National Survey of Latinos , more than half ( 52 % ) of Latinos ages 16 to 25 identify themselves first by their family 's country of origin , be it Mexico , Cuba , the Dominican Republic , El Salvador or any of more than a dozen other Spanish-speaking countries . An additional 20 % generally use the terms `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' first when describing themselves . Only about one-in-four ( 24 % ) generally use the term `` American '' first . Among the U.S.-born children of immigrants , `` American '' is somewhat more commonly used as a primary term of self-identification . Even so , just 33 % of these young second generation Latinos use American first , while 21 % refer to themselves first by the terms Hispanic or Latino , and the plurality—41 % —refer to themselves first by the country their parents left in order to settle and raise their children in this country .
More than four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say they followed news about Obama 's decision to send more troops to Afghanistan very closely , an interest level comparable to mid-2002 . Throughout 2009 , the percentage following Afghanistan news very closely often stood in the mid-20s . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely last week , higher than any other week this year – but still below the 29 % that say they followed the debate over health care legislation most closely . According to the Pew Research Center 's latest weekly News Interest Index , conducted Dec. 4 - 7 among 1,003 adults , 10 % say the evolving Tiger Woods scandal was the story they followed most closely . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed the Woods story very closely ; another 27 % say they followed this news fairly closely . A separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism found that coverage of the war in Afghanistan was the top story of last week , accounting for 27 % of the newshole , while the economy accounted for 14 % of coverage . Woods ' troubles made up 6 % of the newshole , while stories about Tareq and Michaele Salahis ' ability to get past White House security took up another 6 % . With senators negotiating health care legislation largely behind closed doors , that story made up 5 % of the newshole .
It is important to keep in mind that public beliefs about science and scientists are n't necessarily indicators of trust , per se . One example involves public support for the products of scientific and technological innovation . A Pew Research Center survey found that about two-thirds of people see the effects of science on society as mostly positive , which is consistent with some 35 years of data from the General Social Survey . Looking at the components of trust in science across these three scientific areas— vaccines , climate change , and GM food— two patterns stand out . First , public trust in scientists is stronger , by comparison , than it is for several other groups in society . For example , many more people report trust in information from medical scientists , climate scientists , and GM food scientists than information from industry leaders , the news media , and elected officials . On the other hand , no more than about half of people hold strongly trusting views of scientists in any of these domains . For example , only 47 % of people say that medical scientists understand the health effects of the measles , mumps , and rubella ( MMR ) vaccine `` very well . '' Some 43 % hold soft positive views of medical understanding about the MMR vaccine , saying medical scientists understand this issue `` fairly well . '' Public confidence in scientists is relatively strong compared with trust in other institutional groups . Only the military earns more confidence from the public . Still , people seem guarded . No more than a third of people report a `` great deal '' of confidence in any of these groups to act in the public interest . Overall , more people express positive than negative confidence in scientists , but a 55 % majority express only a soft confidence in scientists to act in the public interest . Public trust in scientists as sources of information is generally higher than it is for any of several other groups in society . For example , far more people trust medical scientists to provide full and accurate information about the health effects of childhood vaccines than they trust information from pharmaceutical industry leaders , the news media , or elected officials . The same pattern occurs for public trust in information from climate scientists and from GM food scientists .
Overall , four-in-ten ( 39 % ) respondents say that U.S. Latinos of different origins share `` a lot '' of values , while another 39 % say U.S. Latinos share `` some '' values and an additional 19 % say that they share few or no values . By similar shares , Latinos living in this country are divided about how many values they share with Latinos living in their families ' country of origin .
Relatively few Americans say they have ever expressed their feelings about the issue of guns by either posting on social media ( 26 % ) , contributing money to an organization that takes a position on gun policy ( 14 % ) , contacting a public official to express an opinion on guns ( 14 % ) or attending a rally or protest about the issue of guns ( 6 % ) . On two behaviors surveyed in 2017 and today – contributing money to an organization or contacting a public official – the share who report having done either is little changed . In 2017 , 6 % of adults said they had contacted a public official in the previous year to express an opinion on gun policy . Today , 7 % of adults say they have contacted an official in the past 12 months . Similarly , in 2017 , 7 % of adults said they had contributed money to an organization in the past year . Today , an equal share ( 7 % ) say the same .
Fully 85 % of Venezuelans are dissatisfied with the direction of the country , up 28 percentage points from a 2013 poll conducted shortly after the death of Hugo Chávez . Currently , only 14 % are satisfied with the way things are going in Venezuela .
The U.S. admitted 84,995 refugees in fiscal year 2016 , the most since 1999 . But where they settled varied widely , with some states taking in large numbers and others very few , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. State Department data . California , Texas and New York resettled the most refugees in fiscal 2016 ( which began on Oct. 1 , 2015 , and ended Sept. 30 , 2016 ) , together taking in 20,738 refugees , or about a quarter ( 24 % ) of the U.S. total . Michigan , Ohio , Arizona , North Carolina , Washington , Pennsylvania and Illinois , which each received 3,000 or more refugees , rounded out the top 10 states by number of resettled refugees . Overall , 54 % of refugees admitted to the U.S. in 2016 were resettled in one of these 10 states .
The large drop in new arrivals is almost entirely due to a drop in the number of Mexican unauthorized immigrants coming to the U.S . In 2017 , Mexicans accounted for 20 % of unauthorized immigrants who came to the U.S. in the previous five years , compared with 52 % in 2007 . This represents a decrease in the average annual inflow of Mexican unauthorized immigrants , from about 375,000 per year in 2002 - 2007 to about 90,000 per year for 2012 - 2017 . For other regions of birth , the average annual inflows did not change significantly , but the shares of the total increased due to declining Mexican arrivals . The number of unauthorized immigrants in the labor force – working or looking for work – declined to 7.6 million in 2017 , less than the total of the previous year and notably less than in 2007 , when they were 8.2 million . Unauthorized immigrants made up 4.6 % of the labor force in 2017 , down from 5.4 % in 2007 .
Paris Hilton 's legal problems became a national news story last week . Coverage of Hilton being released from and then returned to jail filled 4 % of the newshole , making it the fifth most heavily covered story of the week . Roughly a third of Americans ( 34 % ) said they followed news about Hilton very or fairly closely , and 12 % said it was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . In this regard , interest in Hilton surpassed interest in the 2008 presidential campaign , the G-8 summit , and talks between George Bush and Vladimir Putin . However , there was far more public interest in the situation in Iraq ( 25 % most closely ) than in Hilton 's out-again , in-again jail drama .
Congress is back from its Thanksgiving break to continue its `` lame duck '' session — so called because it includes senators and representatives who lost their seats in last month 's elections but whose terms wo n't expire till January . Among the items on the congressional to-do list : keeping the government funded , extending an assortment of expired tax breaks , and voting on nominees for ambassadorships , judgeships and other offices . Our analysis found that lame duck sessions are shouldering more of the legislative workload than they used to . The last Congress ' lame duck , which stretched from November 2012 past New Year 's Day 2013 , passed only 87 public laws , but that was 30.7 % of the Congress ' entire two-year output and 31.3 % of its substantive output ( that is , excluding post-office renamings , National `` fill-in-the-blank '' Week designations and other purely ceremonial legislation ) . In 2010 , the 99 public laws passed during the 111th Congress ' lame duck session accounted for 25.8 % of all that Congress ' laws ( and 29.2 % of its substantive laws ) .
For example , in Pew 's 2005 Political Typology ( based on polling in December 2004 ) , 77 % of whites , but only 56 % of blacks agreed that the position of blacks in American society has improved in recent years . And while 63 % of whites feel that blacks who ca n't get ahead are mostly responsible for their own condition , only 43 % of blacks agree , a gap that has stayed virtually constant over the last decade .
Republicans and Democrats are in general agreement on their feelings about Britain . Majorities in both parties ( 63 % of Democrats and 59 % of Republicans ) feel warmly toward Britain , with about four-in-ten in both saying they feel very warmly . These feelings are little changed since 2016 , although Republicans are slightly less likely to feel very warmly toward Britain ( 46 % in 2016 , 37 % now ) ; Democrats are somewhat more likely to feel very warmly ( 37 % in 2016 , 43 % now ) . A 55 % majority of Democrats express warm feelings toward Germany , compared with 37 % of Republicans . Virtually all of the partisan difference in feelings toward Germany is in the share of those who feel very warmly : 36 % of Democrats , compared with 19 % of Republicans .
Hurricanes Felix and Henriette , that simultaneously struck Central America from the Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean , captured less attention than other storms of the recent past . About one-in-seven ( 14 % ) followed the storms very closely last week , compared with far greater numbers who followed Hurricane Wilma in November 2005 ( 34 % , very closely ) or Hurricane Katrina ( 70 % ) in September 2005 , both of which impacted Americans more directly . Questions about the political future of Idaho Sen. Larry Craig following his arrest for disorderly conduct in an airport restroom made him a prominent figure in the news for a second straight week . News about Sen. Craig was followed very closely by 16 % of the public , down only slightly from two-in-ten ( 19 % ) closely following news about his arrest the week before . A congressional sex scandal in October 2006 involving then-U.S. Rep. Mark Foley ( R-Fla. ) who sent inappropriate messages to young people , attracted greater interest : At that time , 26 % said they were following news about Foley 's actions and his subsequent resignation very closely . German officials last week stopped a terrorist plot by a group of Islamic militants to bomb several locations including Ramstein U.S. military base . One-in-five followed this story very closely and just 6 % said it was the story they followed most closely . News about this foiled plot received roughly the same level of public interest as a similar new story in May , when six men were charged with plotting an attack on Fort Dix Army base in New Jersey ( 19 % followed that news very closely ) .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that 27 % of U.S. adults believe Trump 's election reflects God 's will in the sense that the 2016 outcome must be part of God 's overall plan , but that this does n't necessarily mean God approves of Trump 's policies . Far fewer U.S. adults – just 5 % – say God chose Trump because God approves of his policies . About half of Americans say God does n't get involved in U.S. presidential elections ( 49 % ) , while the remainder say they do n't believe in God ( 16 % ) .
Overall , the study finds that the most aggressive forms of disagreement are relatively rare in these channels . For the average member , 10 % of press releases and 9 % of Facebook posts expressed disagreement with the other party in a way that conveyed anger , resentment or annoyance . But there are distinct patterns among those who voiced political discord : congressional leaders , those with more partisan voting records and those who are elected in districts that are solidly Republican or Democratic were the most likely to go negative . Republicans , who did not control the presidency during the 114th Congress , were much more likely to voice disagreement than were Democrats . The analysis represents the Center 's most extensive use of the tools and methods of data science to date .
Individualism is often considered a central feature of American identity , and the survey highlights some of the ways in which Americans are more individualistic than many others around the world . For instance , Americans are especially likely to believe that hard work is a key to success and to think that success in life is not determined by forces beyond our control .
Educational attainment helps explain this variation . Among borrowers of all ages with outstanding student loan debt , the median self-reported amount owed among those with less than a bachelor 's degree was $ 10,000 in 2016 . Bachelor 's degree holders owed a median of $ 25,000 , while those with a postgraduate degree owed a median of $ 45,000 .
Despite the public 's disappointment with democratization in Russia , the number of people who say voting matters has actually risen . In 1991 , when the Times Mirror Center , precursor to the Pew Research Center , first asked if voting gave people an opportunity to express their opinion about how government runs things , just 47 % agreed . In 2009 , the balance of opinion showed more doubting the power of voting . But this spring there seems to be a renewed conviction that casting one 's vote matters – a 56 % -majority now believes this to be true .
To determine the specific kinds of occupations with the most growth potential , we combined the job preparation and skill ratings the Center developed for its report with the projections from the Bureau of Labor Statistics ' Occupational Outlook Handbook . Ratings and projections were available for 541 separate occupations , in 24 different sectors spanning the U.S. civilian workforce . All together , they cover nearly 149 million jobs , or virtually the entire workforce . ( More than 7 million Americans , according to the BLS , work more than one job . ) If we consider the BLS 's full set of employment projections ( which includes 30 or so `` catchall '' occupations covering an additional 1.5 million jobs ) , the strongest growth is foreseen for operations research analysts , statisticians , actuaries and other mathematics-oriented jobs : Employment in math occupations is expected to grow by 28 % , though that 's off a fairly small base ( the group had only 152,400 jobs in 2014 ) . Health care ( 18.6 % ) , personal care and service ( 13.1 % ) and computer and information technology ( 12.5 % ) were the other employment sectors with particularly fast projected growth . On the other hand , employment in production occupations is expected to fall by 3.1 % by 2024 ( representing more than 282,000 jobs ) , and employment in farming , fishing and forestry occupations is projected to shrink by 5.9 % .
Among women who did not live with their spouse before getting married for the first time , 57 % can expect to still be married after 20 years . For women who lived with their spouse before marriage , the probability of being married for at least 20 years is somewhat lower – 46 % . Whether the couple was engaged when they lived together did n't make a difference in women 's chances of long-lasting marriages .
Opinions about the state of the country are strongly associated with religiosity . A solid majority ( 64 % ) of Muslim Turks who pray five times a day are satisfied with the direction of the nation . Among those who pray at least once a week but less than five times daily , only 41 % are satisfied . And among those who hardly ever pray or only do so during religious holidays , just 32 % express satisfaction .
Growth in the number of foreign graduates under OPT slowed in 2017 across all degree levels , but the trend was most pronounced among master 's degree holders . About 188,600 foreign students held master 's degrees in 2017 , a 9 % increase over the previous year – far lower than the 45 % annual increase seen in 2016 . This slowdown follows a period of rapid growth : From 2014 to 2015 , the number of foreign students with master 's degrees jumped by 57 % , the highest annual increase of any degree level since 2004 .
That paradox is possible because of the growing size of the Hispanic population , which has increased from 12.5 % of the total U.S. population in 2000 to 16.9 % in 2012 . If both trends continue , at some point in the future , it is possible that a majority of U.S. Catholics will be Hispanic even though the majority of Hispanics will no longer be Catholic . The share of Hispanics who are Catholic likely has been in decline for at least the last few decades , according to long-term trends in the General Social Survey , and the movement of Hispanics away from Catholicism is not limited to the U.S . In some Latin American countries , evangelical Protestant churches have been gaining members and the share of those with no religious affiliation has been growing .
With the race for the GOP nomination in flux , news about the 2012 elections again topped the public 's news interest last week , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Feb. 9 - 12 among 1,000 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . A quarter ( 25 % ) say this was the news they followed most closely , while 18 % say economic news was their top story .
Last fall , as the United States Senate unanimously passed the first round of the TAIPEI Act – legislation aimed at strengthening U.S. support for Taiwan 's global standing and diplomatic ties with other nations – the Taiwan public overwhelmingly supported closer economic and political ties with the U.S. , according to a Pew Research Center survey . By a nearly two-to-one margin , people in Taiwan rate the U.S. more favorably than mainland China . There is widespread support for increased economic and political ties with Washington ; enthusiasm for similar relations with mainland China is much more muted . Still , even as people are skeptical about closer political relations , half would embrace closer economic ties with mainland China . Younger people are particularly likely to support closer relations with the U.S. , and they are less likely to embrace closer relations with China .
While Republicans and Democrats have long differed in their views on abortion , the partisan gap today is larger than it has been in recent years . And the growing partisan gap has been driven largely by an increase in support for legal abortion among Democrats . In the current survey , Democrats and Democratic leaners are 46 percentage points more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say abortion should be legal in all or most cases ( 82 % vs. 36 % ) . This gap is wider than it has been in previous Pew Research Center surveys dating to 2007 . For instance , in 2016 , there was a 33-point gap between the shares of Democrats ( 72 % ) and Republicans ( 39 % ) who supported legal abortion in all or most cases .
Unauthorized immigrants made up roughly one-fifth ( 16 % to 20 % ) of Europe 's total non-EU-EFTA population in 2017 , according to estimates , with 4 % being unauthorized immigrants with a pending asylum claim that year . This means authorized non-EU-EFTA citizens living in Europe outnumbered unauthorized immigrants by about four to one .
But if you 're a teenager or young adult , you 're much less likely to have seen significant job market improvement compared with older adults . Our analysis of the latest employment data finds that last month , more than half ( 50.9 % ) of the nation 's nearly 8 million unemployed people are between the ages of 16 and 34 – even though that group makes up just over a third of the civilian labor force .
When those who support background checks in general but oppose the Senate legislation ( 10 % of the public ) are asked why they do not want to see the bill pass , 20 % point to flaws in the legislation . Nearly as many cite worries about individual rights ( 17 % ) or say that it would expand government power too much ( 16 % ) . Another 17 % are critical of the legislation 's effectiveness , saying that it will not deter criminals or curb gun violence .
Compared with young adults who do n't have student debt , student loan holders are less upbeat about the value of their degree . About a third ( 36 % ) of those ages 25 to 39 with at least a bachelor 's degree and outstanding student loan debt say that the lifetime financial costs of their degree outweigh the benefits . By comparison , 15 % of young college graduates without outstanding student loans say the lifetime costs outweigh the benefits .
Despite all the pope 's activities over the years , the U.S. media primarily focused on two main stories , with little attention to religious issues the Pope dealt with during his tenure .
While views of their own economies had also darkened in other developed countries by last spring ( 77 % of Americans rated the U.S. economic outlook bad , though only 46 % of Germans , and only 28 % of Australians , were of like mind ) , Japanese economic pessimism has tended to outpace that in other well-heeled nations . Fully 85 % among the Japanese public described their country 's current economic situation as somewhat or very bad ; a mere 13 % judged it even somewhat good . On the `` bad '' side of the ledger , nearly half ( 48 % ) select `` somewhat , '' while 13 % say `` very . '' Contrast this with the 84 % of Indians and 66 % of Chinese and Brazilians who , despite their relative impoverishment , nonetheless express at least some degree of satisfaction with their economic lot in life .
An analysis of changes in the nation 's eligible voting population – U.S. citizens ages 18 and older – offers a preview of profound U.S. demographic shifts that are projected to continue for decades to come . While the nation 's 156 million non-Hispanic white eligible voters in 2016 far outnumber the 70 million eligible voters that are racial or ethnic minorities , their growth lags that of minority groups . As a result , the non-Hispanic white share of the electorate has fallen from 71 % in 2012 to 69 % . There are 10.7 million more eligible voters today than there were in 2012 . More than two-thirds of net growth in the U.S. electorate during this time has come from racial and ethnic minorities . Hispanics , blacks , Asians and other minorities had a net increase of 7.5 million eligible voters , compared with a net increase of 3.2 million among non-Hispanic white eligible voters . The growth among non-Hispanic white eligible voters has been slower than among racial or ethnic minorities in large part because they are overrepresented in deaths due to an aging population . Non-Hispanic whites make up 69 % of U.S. eligible voters , but accounted for 76 % of all eligible voters who died ( 6.6 million of 8.7 million ) between 2012 and 2016 . Another reason growth has lagged among non-Hispanic white eligible voters is that they 're underrepresented among young people born in the U.S. who turn 18 – the group most responsible for the nation 's growth in eligible voters . Non-Hispanic whites accounted for 57 % of the 16 million new eligible voters who turned 18 between 2012 and 2016 . By comparison , racial ethnic minorities – who make up 31 % of the electorate – accounted for 43 % of new eligible voters born in the U.S. who turned 18 .
Majorities of Democrats say the decline in union representation over the past two decades is mostly bad for the country ( 59 % ) and for working people ( 62 % ) . Republicans , by about two-to-one ( 62 % to 29 % ) , say the long-term reduction in union representation has been mostly good for the country . Republicans have more mixed views of the decline 's impact on working people : about half ( 51 % ) say the reduction in union representation has been mostly good for workers , compared with 39 % who say it has been mostly bad .
While CBP enforces immigration laws at the border , ICE is tasked with apprehending unauthorized immigrants in the interior of the country . The number of interior arrests made by ICE ( known as `` administrative arrests '' ) rose 30 % in fiscal 2017 after Trump signed an executive order giving the agency broader authority to detain unauthorized immigrants , including those without criminal records . They went up again in fiscal 2018 but decreased in fiscal 2019 and remain far lower than during President Barack Obama 's first term in office .
Hispanic registered voters are just as motivated to vote and are paying as close attention to this year 's midterm elections as they were in 2010 , according to the survey . About half ( 53 % ) of Hispanic registered voters say they are absolutely certain they will vote this year , unchanged from the 51 % who said the same in 2010 . And today 35 % say they have given this year 's election `` quite a lot '' of thought compared with 32 % who said the same in 2010 .
A majority ( 75 % ) says they feel comfortable going to the grocery store given the current situation with the coronavirus outbreak , and about two-thirds ( 65 % ) say they are comfortable visiting with a close friend or family member inside their home . Just over half ( 53 % ) are comfortable going to a hair salon or barbershop .
A few weeks after President Donald Trump 's announcement of Neil Gorsuch as his nominee to the Supreme Court , 44 % of Americans say they favor the Senate confirming him to the high court , while 32 % are opposed ; roughly a quarter ( 24 % ) offer no opinion . Overall views of Gorsuch 's nomination are similar to views of Barack Obama 's choice of Merrick Garland nearly a year ago . Last March , 46 % favored Senate confirmation of Garland , 30 % were opposed and 24 % had no opinion .
Catholics are about as diverse as Americans overall , but their specific racial and ethnic composition is somewhat different . Compared with all U.S. adults , Catholics are made up of fewer non-Hispanic whites ( 59 % vs. 66 % ) and blacks ( 3 % vs. 12 % ) and more heavily made up of Hispanics ( 34 % vs. 15 % ) .
The Pew Research Center projections have assumed that the annual immigration level , now about 1.4 million people , will increase slowly by 1 % per year , reaching 2.1 million immigrants in 2050 . ( Figure 3 ) With the Center 's immigration assumption , the rate of immigration remains roughly constant over the 45-year projection horizon at 0.48 % per year , or just under five immigrants per 1,000 population for each year . The rate is slightly below the rate for the first half of this decade and equal to the average for the last 35 years . ( Figure 4 )
Since those goals were set , the area that includes roughly 1 billion people made considerable progress improving the living conditions for many people . But as the UN looks to adopt new goals for the next 15 years , sub-Saharan Africa still lags behind other developing regions , particularly in the areas of poverty , health care and education . Indeed , sub-Saharan Africa made the least progress among all developing regions toward reducing extreme poverty since 1990 ( the reference date for the goals set in 2000 ) . Today , the percentage of people living on less than $ 1.25 a day in sub-Saharan Africa ( 41 % ) is more than twice as high as any other region ( such as Southern Asia , with 17 % ) .
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites . Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 61 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ) . People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party . Currently , 61 % of those who do not identify with any religion lean Democratic – a 22-year high . Back to top
Familiarity with QAnon is also connected with the news Americans consume . Those who get their election and political news mainly from The New York Times ( 59 % ) , MSNBC ( 49 % ) or NPR ( 39 % ) are most likely to say they 've heard or read at least a little about QAnon . And 7 % of New York Times readers say they 've heard or read a lot – the highest share of any group . In contrast , roughly two-in-ten consumers whose main source of news is CNN ( 23 % ) or Fox News ( 19 % ) and around one-in-ten whose main news source is CBS ( 11 % ) or ABC ( 8 % ) say they have heard or read at least a little about the conspiracy theories .
Overall , men have a more positive outlook than women have when it comes to the impact of future technological and scientific developments . Fully 67 % of men ( compared with 51 % of women ) said that technological changes will lead to a future where people 's lives are mostly better . Meanwhile , 36 % of women ( compared with 25 % of men ) expect those changes to make society worse . These gender differences are especially pronounced among Americans with high levels of income and education . For example , men with an annual household income of $ 75,000 or more are overwhelmingly positive—80 % expect changes in technology to make life better , while just 9 % expect them to make life worse . Conversely , women in this same income group are much more divided on this question—just over half ( 55 % ) expect a better future thanks to technology , but a third ( 32 % ) envision a negative impact .
When it comes to evaluating their own online habits , teens express mixed views about whether or not they themselves spend too much time on various screens . Roughly half ( 54 % ) believe they spend too much time on their cellphone , while 41 % say they spend too much time on social media . By contrast , only around one-quarter ( 26 % ) believe they spend too much time playing video games – comparable to the share ( 22 % ) who say they spend too little time gaming . Meanwhile , roughly four-in-ten teens say they spend about the right amount of time on social media or gaming . Despite these varying views about screen time , roughly half or more teens say they have tried to limit the amount of time they spend on each technology . Some 52 % have ever cut back on the time they spend on their cellphone , while 57 % have limited their time spent on social media and 58 % have cut back on their time playing video games .
Following the UK 's exit from the European Union , the share of British adults with a favorable view of the EU rose to its highest level on record . The UK formally left the EU in January , concluding a withdrawal process that lasted more than three years . But in Pew Research Center 's first survey in the UK after Brexit , 60 % of British adults said they had a positive view of the EU , up from 54 % the year before and the highest percentage in surveys dating to 2004 . Britons ' views of the EU remained divided along demographic and partisan lines , with younger people , those with a postsecondary education or more and those on the ideological left more likely to express a positive opinion .
Seven-in-ten minority judges who have served on the federal bench were appointed in the last 25 years . In fact , the cumulative number of minorities to have ever served in the district and appellate courts has more than tripled since 1990 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Federal Judicial Center data for the U.S. and Puerto Rico . This growing diversity also is apparent at the federal court system 's highest level : the U.S. Supreme Court . While only three minority judges have ever served on the Supreme Court – including Thurgood Marshall ( 1967 - 1991 ) , Clarence Thomas ( 1991-present ) , and Sonia Sotomayor ( 2009-present ) ­– two of them are currently serving .
Democrats ' early preferences for the 2016 election are similar to those at a comparable point in the 2008 election in one respect : A large share of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters say there is a good chance they would vote for Hillary Clinton . Nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters say that today ; 52 % said that at a comparable point in the campaign eight years ago . But the Democratic field in 2007 was very different than it is today . Currently , about one-in-five Democrats say there is a good chance they would vote for Joe Biden ( 22 % ) if he were to decide to run and about as many say the same about Elizabeth Warren ( 21 % ) , who has repeatedly indicated no interest in being a candidate .
In 2013 , overall digital display advertising accounted for $ 17.7 billion , up from $ 14.8 in 2012 . But five major technology companies—Facebook , Google , Yahoo , Microsoft and AOL—accounted for 51 % of that nearly $ 18 billion in revenue in 2013 . That share is up substantially from 38 % in 2009 and it edged up slightly from 2012 ( 50 % ) . Facebook has sprinted past Google to become the biggest player in the digital display ad market , bringing in $ 3.17 billion in revenue in 2013 compared with $ 2.99 billion for Google . As recently as 2009 , Facebook controlled only 7 % of the digital display market .
About one-in-five Americans ( 22 % ) have contributed to a `` crowdfunded '' online fundraising project , while 3 % have created their own fundraising project on one of these sites . Although large-scale fundraising projects get most of the attention in news stories , there are far more instances of people using crowdfunding platforms to help someone in need , often a person close to them . Roughly two-thirds ( 68 % ) of crowdfunding donors have contributed to a project to help a person facing a hardship or financial challenge , and around six-in-ten say they did so on behalf of an acquaintance , close friend or family member .
A sizeable minority of Hispanics say they , or someone they know , has experienced discrimination . According to a 2009 Pew Hispanic Center survey of Hispanics ages 16 and older , one-third ( 32 % ) say they , a family member , or a close friend have experienced discrimination in the five years prior to the survey because of their racial or ethnic background . This is down from the 41 % of Latino adults who said the same in 2007 , but is not much different from the share of Latinos in previous Pew Hispanic Center surveys who said they or someone they know had experienced discrimination . When asked about specific instances of discrimination , 64 % of Latino adults identified discrimination against Hispanics in schools as a major problem and 58 % of Latino adults said the same about the workplace .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that , for the most part , the large majority of Americans do not feel that information overload is a problem for them . Some 20 % say they feel overloaded by information , a decline from the 27 % figure from a decade ago , while 77 % say they like having so much information at their fingertips . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) say that having more information at their disposals actually helps to simplify their lives .
It 's been seven decades since the end of the Holocaust , an event that decimated the Jewish population in Europe . In the years since then , the number of European Jews has continued to decline for a variety of reasons . And now , concerns over renewed anti-Semitism on the continent have prompted Jewish leaders to talk of a new `` exodus '' from the region . There are still more than a million Jews living in Europe , according to 2010 Pew Research Center estimates . But that number has dropped significantly over the last several decades – most dramatically in Eastern Europe and the countries that make up the former Soviet Union , according to historical research by Sergio DellaPergola of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem . In 1939 , there were 16.6 million Jews worldwide , and a majority of them – 9.5 million , or 57 % – lived in Europe , according to DellaPergola 's estimates . By the end of World War II , in 1945 , the Jewish population of Europe had shrunk to 3.8 million , or 35 % of the world 's 11 million Jews . About 6 million European Jews were killed during the Holocaust , according to common estimates . Since then , the global Jewish population – estimated by Pew Research at 14 million as of 2010 – has risen , but it is still smaller than it was before the Holocaust . And in the decades since 1945 , the Jewish population in Europe has continued to decline . In 1960 , it was about 3.2 million ; by 1991 , it fell to 2 million , according to DellaPergola 's estimates . Now , there are about 1.4 million Jews in Europe – just 10 % of the world 's Jewish population , and 0.2 % of Europe 's total population .
Overall , there has been little change since January in opinions about two other gun policy proposals : creating a federal database to track all gun sales and a ban on assault style weapons . Currently 66 % support a federal gun database and 54 % support an assault weapons ban .
From January through May , a growing proportion of Americans said they were hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy . More recently , however , there has been a steady increase in the share saying that the economic news is mostly bad . Currently , 41 % say they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy , edging up from 37 % in June but 10 points higher than in May ( 31 % ) . Over the past two months , the proportion reporting they are hearing a mix of good and bad news has fallen from 64 % to 56 % . Very few Americans ( 3 % currently ) continue to say they are hearing mostly good news about the economy .
Among respondents in the March 2011 Pew Research Center survey who say they took out college loans and are no longer in school , about half ( 48 % ) report that paying back the loan has made it harder to make ends meet ; 25 % say it has made it harder to buy a home ; 24 % say it has had an impact on the kind of career they are pursuing ; and 7 % say it has delayed their getting married or starting a family .
The 2010s will likely be the first decade in at least 160 years to see an increase in the average number of people living in U.S. households . This is in part because of the rising number of Americans living in multigenerational households . In 2016 , a record 64 million people , or 20 % of the U.S. population , lived with multiple generations under one roof , even with improvements in the U.S. economy since the Great Recession . Another factor behind the increase in household size : More Americans are `` doubled up '' in shared living quarters .
Throughout the general election campaign , Pew 's Weekly News Interest Index asked Americans which candidate they had been hearing the most about in the news in the last week or so . Obama dominated McCain by a roughly seven-to-one margin through most of the summer . McCain was the more visible on only two occasions : the week of the Republican convention and the week immediately following . From that point on , Obama gradually rebuilt his lead . Last week , 64 % of the public said Obama was the candidate they had been hearing the most about in the news ; only16 % named McCain . While Americans consistently said they were hearing more about Obama than McCain , news coverage of the candidates was more balanced . Early in the summer , the media devoted significantly more coverage to Obama than to McCain , according to Pew 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . By late August , though , the two candidates were receiving roughly the same amount of national news coverage . Public perceptions of Obama 's visibility tracked closely with media coverage of his campaign . For McCain , even in the post convention period when his coverage was comparable to coverage of Obama , public perceptions of his visibility were considerably lower . With polls showing Obama running strongly in the last days of the campaign , the Democrat dominated in both coverage and visibility . According to Pew 's PEJ , Obama was featured prominently in 70 % of campaign stories ; McCain was featured in 52 % .
Republican and Democratic voters have substantial differences over the importance of key issues in the 2016 campaign . The widest gap is over the environment : Twice as many Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters ( 74 % ) as Republicans and Republican leaners ( 37 % ) say the environment is very important to their vote .
As Congress comes to a decision on whether to give President Barack Obama broad negotiating powers on trade , our new Pew Research Center report shows that while Americans favor the Trans-Pacific Partnership ( TPP ) , they are among the least likely to support it in the nine TPP nations surveyed . And , as with many issues in the U.S. , there is a partisan divide on support for TPP . Overall , 49 % of Americans say that TPP would be a good thing for their country , while 29 % think it would be a bad thing . When the survey was administered in April and May , the debate over giving Obama fast-track authority — which would enhance his ability to negotiate TPP without fear of it being modified by Congress — had not yet gained the full attention of Americans . Consequently , 12 % volunteered that they had not heard enough about TPP to make a judgment , and a further 9 % did not answer the question . In general , Americans see free trade agreements as good for the country . However , support for this free trade agreement is much more robust in most other TPP nations surveyed . This includes two-thirds or more of Vietnamese ( 89 % good thing ) , Peruvians ( 70 % ) and Chileans ( 67 % ) . And at least half or more in Mexico ( 61 % ) , Japan ( 53 % ) , Australia ( 52 % ) and Canada ( 52 % ) also support the deal . In Malaysia , only 38 % support the agreement , but that is due in part to 31 % volunteering that they have not heard enough .
Wage stagnation has been a subject of much economic analysis and commentary , though perhaps predictably there 's little agreement about what 's causing it ( or , indeed , whether the BLS data adequately capture what 's going on ) . One theory is that rising benefit costs – particularly employer-provided health insurance – may be constraining employers ' ability or willingness to raise cash wages . According to BLS-generated compensation cost indices , total benefit costs for all civilian workers have risen an inflation-adjusted 22.5 % since 2001 ( when the data series began ) , versus 5.3 % for wage and salary costs .
Few Nigerians are satisfied with the state of their democracy . Only 39 % of Nigerians are satisfied with the way democracy is working in their country , while 60 % say they are not satisfied . This negative sentiment is similar to what was found in 2017 but is slightly improved from 2013 , when Goodluck Jonathan was president and 72 % were dissatisfied with the way democracy was working .
Among non-gun owners , mothers are much more likely than fathers to say they have talked with their children about gun safety ( 58 % vs. 37 % ) . And while 59 % of white parents who do n't own guns say they have talked with their children about gun safety , 40 % of nonwhite parents who do n't own guns say they have done this .
Everyone knows that our genes predispose us to be tall or short , blue-eyed blonds or brown-eyed brunettes , smart or not-so-smart . Now new research finds that , to a surprisingly large degree , our genes also shape our political beliefs and orientation . Individual experiences and other social influences explain much of the remaining variation in political attitudes , reports psychologist Cary Funk , who headed the eight-member team . Their results were just published in the latest issue of Political Psychology . ( For the record , Funk is a senior researcher at the Pew Research Center and carried out this study while an associate professor at Virginia Commonwealth University . )
There is a 25-percentage-point gender gap among younger Democrats over the presence of obstacles making it harder for women to get ahead ( 72 % of Democratic women ages 18 to 34 say this vs. 47 % of younger Democratic men ) . Gender differences are more modest among older Democrats .
In 2011 , nearly two-thirds ( 64.6 % ) of U.S. Hispanics , or 33.5 million , traced their family origins to Mexico , according to Pew Research Center tabulations of the 2011 American Community Survey ( ACS ) . By comparison , Puerto Ricans , the nation 's second largest Hispanic-origin group , number about 5 million and make up 9.5 % of the total Hispanic population in the 50 states and the District of Columbia . Mexican-origin Hispanics have always been the largest Hispanic-origin group in the U.S . In 1860 , for example , among the 155,000 Hispanics living in the U.S. , 81 % were of Mexican origin—a historic high . Since then the origins of the nation 's Hispanic population have diversified as growing numbers of immigrants from other Latin American nations and Puerto Rico settled in the U.S. For example , between 1930 and 1980 , Hispanics from places other than Mexico nearly doubled their representation among U.S. Hispanics , from 22 % to 41 % . But with the arrival of large numbers of Mexican immigrants in the 1980s and 1990s , the Mexican share among Hispanics grew , rising to a recent peak of 66 % in 2008 . Since then it has declined slightly—to 65 % —as Mexican migration to the U.S. has slowed ( Passel , Cohn and Gonzalez-Barrera , 2012 ) .
By a two-to-one margin , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ages 50 and older have an unfavorable view of labor unions ( 64 % unfavorable , 32 % favorable ) . By contrast , a majority of younger Republicans ( 55 % ) express a favorable opinion toward unions ; 43 % view them unfavorably . Nearly three-quarters ( 72 % ) of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents with a college degree say they have a negative view of labor unions , while only 28 % are favorable toward labor . Non-college-educated Republicans hold mixed views of unions : Roughly equal shares say they view labor favorably ( 49 % ) and unfavorably ( 47 % ) .
Americans are more likely than their German counterparts to say other countries do too little in global affairs . Roughly two-thirds of Americans say China ( 66 % ) and Russia ( 65 % ) do too little to help solve global problems . About half say the same about the United Nations , and 45 % of Americans hold this view about the European Union . However , Americans are split on whether Germany is doing too little ( 39 % ) or the right amount ( 40 % ) . Germans , on the other hand , have more mixed views . While pluralities in Germany say the UN , Russia and China are doing too little , 46 % say the EU is doing enough . And nearly half say that NATO is doing the right amount to help solve the world 's problems , roughly the same share of Americans ( 48 % ) who say the Atlantic defense organization is not doing enough . Germans are divided on whether the U.S. is doing too little ( 39 % ) or too much ( 39 % ) to help solve global problems .
More than 1,000 immigrants have been evacuated from southern Italy after a recent wave of violence against African farm workers . Surveys conducted by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project over the past decade find that anti-immigrant sentiment is widespread in Italy . For example , in 2007 , Italians overwhelmingly said that immigration was a big problem in their country and that immigrants — both from the Middle East and North Africa and from Eastern European countries — were having a bad impact on Italy . More recently , in the fall of 2009 , more than eight-in-ten Italians said they would like to see tighter restrictions on immigration . Italians were more likely than any other public included in the 47-nation survey conducted in 2007 to see immigration as a big problem in their country . More than nine-in-ten Italians ( 94 % ) considered immigration to be a big problem , including 64 % who said it was a very big problem in Italy .
Pakistanis continue to voice mostly negative opinions of the U.S. Just 14 % have a favorable view of the U.S. , essentially unchanged from last year 's 11 % . However , the percentage of Pakistanis expressing an unfavorable view has declined over the last two years . Currently , 59 % offer a negative rating , down from 72 % last year and 80 % in 2012 . About a quarter of Pakistanis ( 27 % ) give no opinion about the U.S. , up from 16 % last year , and 9 % two years ago .
Pew Research Center does not have polling data on press treatment , but we did recently poll the Turkish public on the media 's influence on the nation . Only 32 % of Turks said that the media is having a good influence on the way things are going in Turkey . Although no institution earned a large majority of support , the media ranked lower than the military ( 55 % ) , the police ( 55 % ) , the national government ( 51 % ) and then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan ( 48 % ) . Turkish views of the media were also slightly lower than public opinion of the court system ( 37 % ) and religious leaders ( 37 % ) .
At a time when much attention has been focused on how much individuals can protect their privacy in a wired world , a new survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet Project finds that 86 % of internet users have taken steps online to remove or mask their digital footprints . More than half ( 55 % ) of internet users say they took the steps to avoid observation by specific people , organizations or the government . But despite such efforts , 59 % of internet users do n't believe it 's possible to achieve complete anonymity on line . Read the full report . From deleting cookies from browsers to using temporary e-mail names , internet users have tried a variety of strategies to protect their privacy .
In 30 of the 34 countries surveyed , majorities or pluralities think men and women in their country have about the same opportunities when it comes to expressing their political views . About half in Japan also believe this , but an identical share says men have more opportunities than women .
Younger adults remain much more critical of Trump 's performance than older adults . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 disapprove of how Trump is handling his job . The oldest adults ( ages 65 and older ) are as likely to say they approve ( 48 % ) as disapprove ( 48 % ) of Trump . Disapproval of Trump has edged higher among all age groups since earlier this year . While Trump 's overall approval has slipped several points from where it stood in March , most Americans ' views of the president have remained relatively stable over the past three months . Looking at the same group of adults who were surveyed in both March and June , 17 % of those who approved of Trump in March now disapprove of him ( representing 8 % of the public overall ) . They are somewhat different demographically from those who approved of the president 's performance in March and continue to do so ; 81 % of those who approved in March also do so today . Compared with those who continue to approve of Trump , those who previously approved and now disapprove are younger , have lower family incomes and are more likely to live in places hardest hit by the coronavirus outbreak .
Democrats have become more liberal in recent years . The share of Democrats who describe their political views as liberal has increased over the past 15 years . In surveys conducted this year , 41 % of Democrats describe themselves as liberal , 35 % say they are moderates and 21 % say they 're conservative . In 2000 , 43 % were moderate , 27 % liberal and 24 % conservative .
In terms of the week 's top stories , as many followed news about the economy most closely ( 14 % ) as followed campaign news most closely ( 16 % ) . Another 12 % cite news about the freak snowstorm that hit the East Coast as their top story .
There are differences in these patterns by community type and parents ' education level . Roughly two-thirds of students attending suburban schools ( 65 % ) say they use the internet for homework every day or almost every day , compared with 58 % who attend schools in cities , 50 % of those who attend in rural areas and 44 % of those attending schools in towns . Students whose parents graduated from college are more likely to use the internet for homework at home . Some 62 % of these students use the internet at home for homework , compared with smaller shares of students whose parents have some post-high school education ( 53 % ) , have only a high school education ( 52 % ) or have no high school education ( 48 % ) .
What does it take to be considered part of the middle class these days ? The vast majority of American adults agree that a secure job and the ability to save money for the future are essential . The public is more evenly split when it comes to owning a home and having the time and money to travel for vacation . But one thing is now less likely to be seen as a requirement : a college education . While the economic gap between college graduates and those with a high school education or less has never been greater , the share of adults saying a college education is necessary to be middle class has actually fallen since 2012 , from 37 % to 30 % , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Dec. 8 - 13 , 2015 .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 4 - 8 among 1,503 adults , finds only modest public expectations for this year 's State of the Union address . Just 30 % think Bush 's speech will be more important than speeches in past years , down slightly compared with last year and 2004 ( 34 % each ) ; roughly half ( 47 % ) say Bush 's address will be about as important as the speeches of recent years . In January 2002 , a few months after the 9/11 attacks , 54 % said Bush 's speech that year would be more important . And the following year , as the war with Iraq loomed , nearly as many Americans ( 52 % ) felt Bush 's address would carry greater importance .
College graduates are more likely to know that U.S. manufacturing output has increased than are people with less than a bachelor 's degree . Still , college graduates are about as likely to say output has increased rather than decreased ( 43 % versus 39 % ) , with the rest saying it 's stayed about the same . About half ( 51 % ) of people without a four-year college degree say manufacturing output has fallen , versus a third ( 32 % ) who say it has risen .
The new survey also asked Americans to weigh the importance of government versus private investment in research funding . A majority of Americans ( 57 % ) say government funding is essential for scientific progress , while 42 % say private funding will ensure enough progress even without government funding . The share saying government investment is essential is broadly consistent with previous Pew Research Center surveys that again used different survey methods and somewhat different question wording . Liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans have different views on this question . About eight-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 78 % ) say government funding of research is essential for scientific progress . By contrast , 31 % of conservative Republicans say government investment is essential , while two-thirds ( 67 % ) say private investment will ensure enough progress is made , even without government funding .
Two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , which is little changed since early February ( 61 % ) or early January ( 65 % ) . Meanwhile , the number that says they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy now stands at 30 % . It had been 35 % at the start of February and 29 % in early January . Just 4 % say they are hearing mostly good news about the economy , essentially unchanged from earlier in the year . When asked about specific elements of the economy , Americans are most likely to say they are hearing bad news about the employment picture . The federal government announced March 5 that the unemployment rate was 9.7 % in February , unchanged from January . Currently , 59 % say they are hearing mostly bad news about the jobs situation , about the same as the 61 % that said this in January .
But when asked which story they followed most closely this week , news coming from Iraq remains the clear priority . By more than three-to-one ( 26 % vs. 7 % ) a larger share cite events in Iraq rather than the policy debate at home as the single topic they followed most closely . Despite limited coverage , there remains a core audience for news about Anna Nicole Smith ; 16 % of Americans followed reports on Ms. Smith 's autopsy results the most closely – a story that filled only 2 % of the newshole this past week . Overall , roughly twice as many people focused on this story as focused on reports about the 2008 campaign or on the Iraq policy debate in Washington , even though each of the last two stories received three-times the press coverage .
The survey shows that higher levels of familiarity with Islam , and especially knowing someone who is Muslim , are associated with more positive views toward the religion . For example , among the group with the highest level of familiarity with Islam , most reject the idea that Islam encourages violence ( 57 % ) . By contrast , fewer than half of those with medium familiarity with Islam ( 46 % ) and one-third of those with little familiarity ( 34 % ) reject the idea of a link between Islam and violence . Not surprisingly , people with lower levels of familiarity with Islam exhibit higher levels of non-response in attitudes about Islam , saying they do not know whether it is more or less likely than other religions to encourage violence .
To better understand this , we added a follow-up to our initial questions on diversity , gender equality , family ties and religion : Is this a good or bad thing for the country ? To accurately classify these responses , we took people who said there was an increase ( for example in diversity ) and that this was a good thing , and then combined them with people who said diversity had decreased and they felt this was bad . On the other side , we combined people who said there was an increase and that it was bad with those who saw a decrease in diversity and thought it was good for society .
People hold mixed assessments about the influences operating on science research . About half of people ( 52 % ) say that the best available scientific evidence influences medical research on childhood vaccines `` most of the time , '' while some 36 % say this occurs `` some of the time '' and another 9 % say this seldom or never happens . There is even less public trust in research connected with climate change and GM foods ; roughly three in 10 people say the best available scientific evidence influences climate research or GM food research `` most of the time . ''
Concerns about American power and influence have risen in countries around the world amid steep drops in U.S. favorability and confidence in the U.S. president . Across 30 nations surveyed by Pew Research Center both in 2013 and this spring , a median of 38 % now say U.S. power and influence poses a major threat to their country , up 13 percentage points from 2013 .
While majorities of both men and women say there is at least some discrimination against women , this view is more widely held among women ( 76 % ) than it is among men ( 62 % ) . Both men and women are substantially less likely to see discrimination against men . Men are slightly more likely than women to say there is a lot or some discrimination against men ( 43 % of men , 36 % of women ) . Within partisan groups there are no gender gaps in views about discrimination against men : About half of Republican men ( 51 % ) and a similar share of GOP women ( 44 % ) say that there is at least some discrimination against men . Both Democratic men ( 29 % ) and Democratic women ( 26 % ) are much less likely say this . In views of discrimination against women , fairly comparable shares of Republican women ( 58 % ) and men ( 47 % ) say women face at least some discrimination . Democrats – both women ( 86 % ) and men ( 81 % ) – are far more likely than Republicans to see discrimination against women . However , a greater share of Democratic women ( 51 % ) than Democratic men ( 35 % ) say women face `` a lot '' of discrimination in our society .
President Barack Obama is on pace to leave the White House with a smaller federal prison population than when he took office – a distinction no president since Jimmy Carter has had , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Bureau of Justice Statistics . The number of sentenced prisoners in federal custody fell 5 % ( or 7,981 inmates ) between the end of 2009 , Obama 's first year in office , and 2015 , the most recent year for which BJS has final , end-of-year statistics . Preliminary figures for 2016 show the decline continued during Obama 's last full year in office and that the overall reduction during his tenure will likely exceed 5 % . During the eight years of Ronald Reagan 's tenure , for example , the number of sentenced inmates in federal custody rose 78 % ( or 16,539 prisoners ) , the largest percentage increase for any administration on record . It went up 39 % ( 16,946 prisoners ) during the four years of George H.W . Bush 's presidency ; 56 % ( 38,769 prisoners ) during the eight years of Bill Clinton 's tenure ; and 32 % ( 36,784 prisoners ) during the eight years of George W. Bush 's administration . In absolute numbers , the increase during Clinton 's tenure was the largest on record . Despite serving only four years , Carter presided over a 34 % decline in sentenced prisoners between 1977 and 1980 , a reduction of 9,625 inmates . The decline during Carter 's tenure was the largest of any president on record , both as a percentage and in absolute numbers .
While administration officials project an economic catastrophe if the debt limit is not raised by Aug. 2 , many Americans do not see this deadline as a major problem . Four-in-ten ( 40 % ) say that , from what they 've read and heard , it is absolutely essential that the federal debt limit be raised by Aug. 2 to avoid an economic crisis , while about as many ( 39 % ) say the country can go past this date without major economic problems .
Looking ahead , the public has mixed views of how they think the national economy will perform over the next year . About as many say conditions will be better in a year ( 32 % ) as say they will be worse ( 29 % ) ; 37 % think they will be about the same as they are now .
As in the past , substantial majorities across the political spectrum are either angry or frustrated with the federal government . But anger at the government is far more widespread among conservative Republicans than other partisan groups . This marks a change from 2011 , when political independents ( 30 % angry ) were about as likely as conservative Republicans ( 32 % ) to express anger at the federal government . In the new survey , 41 % of conservative Republicans say they feel angry at the government , compared with 27 % of independents . Conservative Republicans are roughly twice as likely as liberal Democrats to say they are angry with government ( 41 % vs. 18 % ) . But in October 2006 , during the Bush administration , liberal Democrats expressed more anger at the government than any other group . At that time , just prior to the 2006 midterm , the percentage of liberal Democrats who said they felt angry at the federal government ( 44 % ) mirrors the share of conservative Republicans who say that today ( 41 % ) .
While it remains to be seen whether President Donald Trump will act on campaign promises to get tough on Beijing , the American public has largely soured on China in recent years . In a January survey by Pew Research Center , 65 % said China is either an adversary ( 22 % ) or a serious problem ( 43 % ) , while only about a third ( 31 % ) said China is not a problem . And in a separate spring 2016 survey , a majority ( 55 % ) of Americans held an unfavorable opinion of their largest Asian rival . In the United States , negative views of China increased by 26 percentage points between 2006 and 2016 . And American negativity toward China has been higher than Chinese negativity toward the U.S. in every year since 2014 . By comparison , Chinese unfavorable views of the U.S. remained below 50 % for most of Barack Obama 's presidency .
Data from Pew Research Center and other sources show that around half of newspaper readers consume newspapers only in their printed form . In our study of the local news environments in three markedly different U.S. metropolitan areas , nearly or about half of readers of the local daily paper in Denver ( 46 % ) , Macon , Ga. ( 48 % ) , and Sioux City , Iowa ( 53 % ) did not access the paper online . Indeed , print newspaper readers tend to be news enthusiasts . They are more likely to often watch local TV news than those newspaper readers who access the paper online instead of or in addition to the print edition . And although print-only readers in the three cities studied are certainly older than their counterparts who access the paper online – in their mid-50s , compared with online newspaper readers , who were generally in their early to mid-40s – this difference persists even when controlling for age . If print distribution becomes economically unfeasible , it remains to be seen whether this group will finally move to the online edition , or be content with getting their local news from TV , as they already do .
President Obama 's new programs could affect about 4 million total unauthorized immigrants who will be eligible for deportation protection and a three-year work permit . The largest group — at least 3.5 million , according to Pew Research estimates of 2012 data — consists of unauthorized immigrant parents who have lived in the U.S. for at least five years and have children who either were born in the U.S. or are legal permanent residents . Of these , about 700,000 have adult children and the remaining 2.8 million have children younger than 18 .
The widening partisan gap has been largely driven by liberal Democrats , who have become much more negative in their views . Just 40 % of liberal Democrats currently have a favorable view of the Supreme Court – the lowest percentage among this group in at least 15 years . Liberal Democrats are now far less likely than conservative and moderate Democrats ( 57 % favorable ) – or Republicans regardless of ideology – to view the court positively .
There are substantial differences across racial and ethnic groups when it comes to personal choices about end-of-life medical treatment . Nearly two-thirds of whites ( 65 % ) say they would stop their medical treatment if they had an incurable disease and were suffering a great deal of pain ; by contrast , 61 % of blacks and 55 % of Hispanics say they would tell their doctors to do everything possible to save their lives in these circumstances . According to interviews by Religion News Service , possible reasons for these differences include historic experiences , religious faith and family roles .
The use of digital technology has had a long stretch of rapid growth in the United States , but the share of Americans who go online , use social media or own key devices has remained stable the past two years , according to a new analysis of Pew Research Center data . The shares of U.S. adults who say they use the internet , use social media , own a smartphone or own a tablet computer are all nearly identical to the shares who said so in 2016 . The share who say they have broadband internet service at home currently stands at 65 % – nearly identical to the 67 % who said this in a survey conducted in summer 2015 . And when it comes to desktop or laptop ownership , there has actually been a small dip in the overall numbers over the last two years – from 78 % in 2016 to 73 % today .
Support for the goals of the science marches is divided by political party . Republicans and Republican leaners oppose the goals of the science marches by a 47 % -25 % margin ; some 29 % are undecided about their views . Democrats and Democratic leaners support the goals of the marches by a 68 % -14 % margin , with 18 % undecided .
Currently , 51 % of Americans favor allowing more offshore oil and gas drilling in U.S. waters while 41 % are opposed . In June , during the Gulf of Mexico oil leak , there was more opposition ( 52 % ) than support ( 44 % ) for increased offshore drilling . Support for expanded offshore drilling is still lower than it was in February , before the Gulf oil leak , when the public backed more offshore drilling in U.S. waters by a two-to-one margin ( 63 % favor , 31 % oppose ) . From the fall of 2008 to early this year , opinion about offshore drilling had been fairly stable .
In our most recent survey in July , 48 % of Americans expressed a favorable view of the court while 38 % regarded it unfavorably , the first time the positive number had edged below the 50 % mark . Prior to the decisions handed down in June , a March survey found 52 % viewed the court favorably while 31 % had an unfavorable opinion . As recently as 2007 , nearly three-quarters ( 72 % ) of Americans had viewed the court positively .
Those who perceived at least some effect of climate change in their local community were asked to consider if climate change has had a personal impact in their lives . Overall , about three-in-ten U.S. adults ( 31 % ) say the local effects are directly affecting their personal lives .
For most of the 1990s and the subsequent decade , a substantial majority of Americans believed it was more important to control gun ownership than to protect gun owners ' rights . But in December 2014 , the balance of opinion flipped : For the first time , more Americans say that protecting gun rights is more important than controlling gun ownership , 52 % to 46 % .
Ten years ago today , a little website called thefacebook.com was launched . Initially restricted to Harvard undergraduates , the site had 1 million users by the end of 2004 . Today , Facebook ( `` the '' was dropped in 2005 ) has more than 1.2 billion `` monthly active users '' around the world . As of December , the company says 757 million people used the social-networking service on any given day . These days , Facebook 's strongest growth is coming from overseas . The monthly user base ( defined as those who accessed the site at least once in the previous 30 days ) grew just 4.1 % in the U.S. and Canada last year , according to the company 's annual 10-K report . In Europe , it grew by 8 % ; in Asia , 23.5 % ( including Australia and New Zealand ) ; and in the rest of the world , it grew by 23.7 % . American and Canadian users , in fact , now make up less than a sixth of Facebook 's total user base .
Education levels of unauthorized immigrants remain well below those of the U.S. born and of lawful immigrants , however . Among the U.S. born , 8 % of adults ages 25 to 64 do not have a high school diploma and 33 % hold a college degree . Among lawful immigrants , the shares are 21 % and 37 % .
Although the plurality of Republicans who had agreed with the tea party backed Trump for the nomination in both surveys , Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas enjoyed substantial levels of support from this group : 24 % supported him in December 2015 , while 35 % did so in April 2016 . Far smaller shares of other Republicans favored Cruz at either point . In contrast , Republicans who disagreed with the tea party were substantially more likely than other Republicans to back Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida in late 2015 and Ohio Gov . John Kasich in April 2016 .
Although minorities ( including black , Hispanic , Asian American , Native American and multiracial populations ) make up over a third of the U.S. adult population ( 35 % ) , they make up only 22 % of the local television news workforce , according to a study by the Radio Television Digital News Association . The figure is even lower for daily newspapers , where only 13 % of newsroom employees are minorities , according to an annual survey of newsroom employment by the American Society of News Editors ( ASNE ) . These figures have changed little over the past two decades . Traditionally , journalists have begun their careers at smaller organizations rather than large-market newspapers and TV stations . But for both local TV and newspapers , it 's the small outlets that are least likely to have minority employees . Low-circulation newspapers are the least likely to hire minorities for their first full-time professional jobs , and small-market local TV stations are the least likely to promote them into news director positions .
Many more U.S. Muslims identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party than the GOP ( 66 % vs. 13 % ) , but the share who are Republican has held steady over the last 10 years , including after the election of President Donald Trump , according to a new analysis of Pew Research Center survey data collected between 2007 and 2017 . In 2007 , 11 % of Muslims identified as Republican . The share changed very little in surveys conducted by the Center in 2011 ( 11 % ) and 2017 ( 13 % ) .
With its growing middle class , many Chinese are worried about issues such as consumer and environmental safety . In recent years there have been numerous high-profile scandals regarding unsafe medical and food products , and the Chinese public is taking note . The share of the public rating the safety of medicines a very big problem has risen from 9 % in 2008 to 42 % today . Similarly , strong concerns about food safety have grown from 12 % to 40 % .
Turkey , as a nation , is generally popular in the countries surveyed . Majorities in all of the predominantly Muslim nations polled ( the Palestinian territories , Jordan , Lebanon , Egypt , Indonesia , and Pakistan ) express a favorable opinion of Turkey . But the country also receives a positive rating in much of Europe , including Russia ( 66 % favorable ) , France ( 61 % ) , Ukraine ( 58 % ) , and Britain ( 54 % ) .
There are major differences between Republicans and Democrats on this value — 58 % of Democrats and 36 % of Republicans said that homosexuality should be accepted and not discouraged . But in contrast with attitudes toward national security , where there has been a growing partisan gap , the balance of opinion among Republicans and Democrats on this question has changed very little since the 1990s .
When asked to choose between having a close relationship to Germany or Russia , Americans clearly favor Germany ( 61 % to 26 % ) . When Germans are asked to choose between Russia and the U.S. , however , the gap is smaller ( 39 % to 25 % ) , and three-in-ten Germans volunteer both . But as it relates to a rising China , attitudes diverge the other way . Germans are about twice as likely to say they prefer a close relationship to the U.S. over China ( 50 % to 24 % ) , while Americans are almost equally divided ( 41 % prefer Germany , 44 % say China ) .
Although it is common to use at least one of these platforms , relatively few adults ( median of 20 % ) say they currently use three or more social media platforms or messaging apps . This level of use is most common in Lebanon and Jordan , where about four-in-ten say they use three or more of these apps ( 42 % and 38 % , respectively ) . About three-in-ten say the same in Venezuela ( 31 % ) , Colombia ( 29 % ) and Mexico ( 27 % ) . People in India ( 9 % ) , the Philippines ( 9 % ) and Vietnam ( 5 % ) are the least likely to report using three or more of these apps .
Hispanic registered voters have grown more dissatisfied with the nation 's direction . In 2016 , 57 % of Hispanic voters say they are dissatisfied with the way things are going in the country , up from 50 % in 2012 . Among them , those born in the U.S. are more dissatisfied than immigrants , 63 % to 45 % .
An ongoing flashpoint for tensions between the two Asian powers has been Prime Minister Koizumi 's regular visits to the Yasukuni Shrine . Chinese opposition to these visits is overwhelming ( 78 % oppose ) , while the Japanese are divided – 52 % support the visits and 45 % oppose them .
The federal government has run deficits nearly every year since the Great Depression and consistently since fiscal 2002 . Through the first 10 months of fiscal 2020 , the government took in $ 2.82 trillion in revenue and spent $ 5.63 trillion , for a year-to-date deficit of just over $ 2.8 trillion , according to the Treasury Department 's Bureau of the Fiscal Service . Through the first 10 months of fiscal 2019 , by comparison , the deficit stood at $ 866.8 billion . The deficit began widening dramatically in April , as the government started spending hundreds of billions of dollars on coronavirus relief and response . In the April to July 2020 period , federal revenues were about 9.8 % below the same period in 2019 , while spending more than doubled , according to Treasury Department data .
Even as the public registers strong support for a congressional deadline for withdrawing U.S. forces , there has been a modest rise in optimism about conditions in Iraq . Four-in-ten Americans say that the U.S. military effort in Iraq is going very or fairly well , up 10 points from February , when positive perceptions reached an all-time low . The shift has come disproportionately among Republicans ( up 16 points ) , though independents and Democrats also are more positive about the situation in Iraq than they were in February ( up 10 and nine points , respectively ) .
Although few Americans have been diagnosed with COVID-19 themselves , many more say they know someone with a positive diagnosis . More than one-in-four U.S. adults ( 28 % ) say they personally know someone who has been diagnosed by a health care provider as having COVID-19 . A smaller share of Americans ( 20 % ) say they know someone who has been hospitalized or who has died as a result of having the coronavirus . Some groups are more likely than others to report personal experiences with COVID-19 . For instance , black adults are the most likely to personally know someone who has been hospitalized or died as a result of the disease . One-third of black Americans ( 34 % ) know someone who has been hospitalized or died , compared with 19 % of Hispanics and 18 % of white adults . Black Americans ( 32 % ) are also slightly more likely than Hispanic adults ( 26 % ) to know someone diagnosed with COVID-19 . Public health studies have found black Americans are disproportionately dying or requiring hospitalization as a result of the coronavirus . Areas in the northeastern United States have recorded some of the highest rates of coronavirus cases and fatalities , and this is reflected in the Center 's survey . About four-in-ten adults living in the Northeast ( 42 % ) say they personally know someone diagnosed with COVID-19 , significantly more than among adults living in any other region . People living in the Northeast ( 31 % ) are also the most likely to know someone who has been hospitalized or died as a result of the disease .
Lack of employment opportunities is seen by the public as India 's biggest challenge , with 76 % of adults saying it is a very big problem – little changed over the past year . In 2018 , despite an estimated 3.5 % formal unemployment rate , 18.6 million Indians were jobless and another 393.7 million work in poor-quality jobs vulnerable to displacement , according to estimates by the International Labor Office . Other aspects of the economy are also at the top of the public 's concerns . More than seven-in-ten ( 73 % ) believe rising prices are a very big problem . About two-thirds of the public says corrupt officials ( 66 % ) , terrorism ( 65 % ) and crime ( 64 % ) are very big problems . In each case , such concern is down significantly from 2017 – by 20 percentage points in the case of crime , 11 points for terrorism and 8 points regarding officials ' corruption .
When asked which is more important , having a democratic government with some risk of political instability , or a stable government with a risk it will not be fully democratic , 62 % of Tunisians say they prefer stability . This has increased dramatically since 2012 when just 38 % said they would prefer stability over democracy . After the political turmoil of the last two years , only a third say that a democratic government is worthwhile , even if there is instability , down from the majority ( 55 % ) who believed the same in 2012 .
Opposition leader Nawaz Sharif fares better : 63 % express a positive opinion of the Pakistan Muslim League ( PML-N ) leader , down from a year ago when 71 % held this view . The most popular leader tested is former cricket star Imran Khan . Nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) have a favorable view of the athlete turned politician , up from 52 % in 2010 .
The survey finds that Americans have not found the news media to be a big help in getting information about its provisions . A majority ( 56 % ) say the news media 's coverage has been `` mostly about politics and controversy '' while only 6 % say it has been mostly about how the law will affect people . A third say the coverage has been a balance of the two .
Young adults who have cellphones are also more likely than seniors to have used their cellphone during their most recent social gathering . Fully 98 % of young adults used their cellphone for one reason or another during their most recent get-together with others , compared with 69 % of cell owners 65 and older .
Highly educated Democrats are especially likely to be talking about the election Overall , most people ( 64 % ) say Trump 's election and plans for his presidency have come up very often or somewhat often in their conversations , according to the latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Nov. 29-Dec. 12 among 4,183 adults on our nationally representative American Trends Panel . Highly educated Democrats – those with at least a college degree – are more likely than Republicans and others in their own party to say they 've discussed the election . About four-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners with college degrees ( 43 % ) say the election comes up very often . About half as many ( 18 % ) Democrats with less education talk about it very often . Only about a quarter of Republicans and Republican leaners across educational levels say they have talked frequently about the election .
Republicans generally have a positive view of potential increases in tariffs on steel and aluminum imports . About six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say they would be good for the country , while just 26 % say such tariff increases would be bad for the country . Democratic opinion is the opposite : Only 22 % of Democrats think increasing steel and aluminum tariffs would be good for the U.S. , while 63 % say they would be bad for the country .
Amid increased violence and mounting casualties in Iraq , opinions about the war have changed only marginally over the past several weeks . Since early September , however , opinions on several key measures on the war have grown more negative . Just 43 % of Americans now believe the U.S. made the right decision in using military force against Iraq , down from 49 % in early September . And the number saying the U.S. military effort is not going well has risen from 48 % in early September to 59 % in the current survey .
As has been the case in the last five midterm elections dating back to 1998 , women turned out to vote at slightly higher rates than men . Over half of women ( 55 % ) who were eligible to vote cast ballots in the 2018 midterms in November , as did 51.8 % of men , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of newly released data from the U.S. Census Bureau .
Overall , the largest segment ( 44 % ) of cell-owning adults makes 1 to 5 calls on a typical day . Only 5 % of adults say they do not make or receive any calls on their cell phone on an average day .
Those who have contributed money to a political candidate or group in the past year are much more likely than those who have not made a recent contribution to say that their representative in Congress would help them if they had a problem . They are also more likely to say ordinary citizens can do a lot to influence the government in Washington if they are willing to make the effort . Overall , 37 % of Americans say that they feel it is at least somewhat likely their representative would help them with a problem if they contacted her or him . However , about half ( 53 % ) of those who have given money to a political candidate or group in the last year believe their representative would help . Belief that one 's member of Congress will help them with a problem is highest ( 63 % ) among the subset of donors who have given more than $ 250 to a candidate or campaign in the past year . A similar pattern is seen on the question of whether or not people feel ordinary citizens can make a difference . Among those who did not make a political contribution in the past year , about half say there is a lot ordinary citizens can do to influence the government in Washington . By comparison , 66 % of donors , including 74 % of those who gave more than $ 250 , say there is a lot ordinary citizens can do to make a difference .
Much has been made of the deep values differences that divide Americans and Western Europeans . Americans prize individualism and personal empowerment more than do Western Europeans . There is much more support for an extensive social safety net in Europe than in the U.S. And perhaps more than any other issue , religion has come to define the transatlantic values gap . Among wealthy nations , Pew has found , the United States is the most religious nation – in sharp contrast to mostly secular Western Europe . A 58 % majority in the U.S. views belief in God as a prerequisite to morality – just a third of Germans and even fewer Italians , British and French agree .
By comparison , about half say they have a lot or some trust in information provided by their state government ( 51 % ) and the Obama administration ( 50 % ) . Smaller percentages trust information from federal agencies ( 44 % ) , business corporations ( 41 % ) , Congress ( 37 % ) or candidates running for office ( 29 % ) .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that President Barack Obama 's overall approval rating has held steady at 44 % , even as he receives low marks for his handling of the surge of undocumented child immigrants at the U.S. border . While Obama 's job rating has been below 50 % for the past year , it stands eight points higher than that of his predecessor , George W. Bush , at a comparable point eight years ago . In July 2006 , 36 % approved of Bush 's job performance .
As the standoff between the Department of Justice and Apple Inc. continues over an iPhone used by one of the suspects in the San Bernardino terrorist attacks , 51 % say Apple should unlock the iPhone to assist the ongoing FBI investigation . Fewer Americans ( 38 % ) say Apple should not unlock the phone to ensure the security of its other users ' information ; 11 % do not offer an opinion on the question .
About one-in-five followed news about the new UN sanctions on Iran ( 19 % ) very closely , and 2 % name this as their top story . News about the sanctions approved last week in response to Iran 's nuclear program made up 3 % of newshole , according to PEJ .
About three-in-ten each say they very closely followed news about recent ups and downs in the stock market ( 32 % ) and S & P credit rating downgrade ( 31 % ) . Partisans are about equally likely to say they followed both stories very closely .
These demographic changes are impacting Cuban Americans ' views of Cuba . For example , among more recent immigrant arrivals , 49 % say Cuban Americans and people living in Cuba share `` a lot '' of values in common , according to a new analysis of a 2013 Pew Research Center survey of Hispanics . By contrast , Cuban immigrants who arrived before 1990 hold a different view : 41 % say there is `` only a little '' or `` almost nothing '' in common between Cuban Americans and people living in Cuba . ( The sample size of those born in the U.S. is too small to provide reliable estimates . )
The decline in Prime Minister Abe 's support comes at a time of public dissatisfaction with the state of Japanese democracy . Just four-in-ten of those surveyed ( 40 % ) are satisfied with the way their democracy is working today . Such positive sentiment is down from 50 % in 2017 . At the same time , a majority of Japanese ( 56 % ) are dissatisfied with their democracy , up 9 percentage points from 2017 .
When asked who is to blame for the drug violence in their country – Mexico or the United States – a majority of Mexicans ( 61 % ) say both countries bear responsibility . About one-in-five ( 22 % ) says the U.S. is mostly to blame , while 14 % point to Mexico . The number of Mexicans blaming both countries is up 10 percentage points compared with 2009 , when the question was first asked .
More than two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they followed news about the U.S. housing market very closely ; this was the most closely followed story for 10 % of the public . News about the housing market made up 2 % of coverage , while news about the economy overall – including the housing coverage – accounted for 9 % . Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed news about the Katrina anniversary very closely , while 8 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Reporting on the five year anniversary made up 11 % of coverage . News about the 2010 elections – including a series of August primaries – made up the single largest share of coverage ( 14 % ) . Two-in-ten say they followed this news very closely , while 6 % say it was the news they followed most closely .
After a period of steady growth , the number of inmates held in private prisons in the United States has declined modestly in recent years and continues to represent a small share of the nation 's total prison population . In 2015 , the most recent year for which data are available , about 126,000 prisoners were held in privately operated facilities under the jurisdiction of 29 states and the federal Bureau of Prisons . That 's an 83 % increase since 1999 , the first year with comparable data , according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics ( BJS ) . By comparison , the total U.S. prison population increased 12 % during that span . In more recent years , however , both the private and overall U.S. prison populations have declined at modest rates . The private prison population has shrunk by 8 % since its peak in 2012 , while the overall prison population has fallen by 5 % since its peak in 2009 . ( The state private prison population peaked in 2012 with 96,774 prisoners , while the federal private prison population reached its peak a year later in 2013 , with 41,159 prisoners . ) Since 1999 – the first year BJS began collecting data on private prisons – inmates in privately run facilities have made up a small share of all U.S. prisoners . In 2015 , just 8 % of the nearly 1.53 million state and federal prisoners in the U.S. were in private facilities , up slightly from 5 % in 1999 .
New data released this week from the U.S. Census Bureau reaffirm the strong linkage between educational attainment and the marital status and living arrangements of parents of minor children . Among parents who live with a child under the age of 18 , 89 % of college graduates are married , compared with 64 % of parents with less than a high school diploma and 70 % of those with just a high school diploma . Just over half ( 53 % ) of mothers who lack a high school diploma and who live with their children are married , as compared with 78 % of dads with the same educational level . These gender differences narrow considerably — but still persist — among the most educated . Some 84 % of moms who have a bachelor 's degree and live with their children are married , compared with 95 % of dads with a bachelor 's degree .
Americans are divided about whether they see Islam as more likely than other religions to encourage violence among its believers : 46 % say it is more likely , while 45 % say it is not more likely . The share of the public saying that Islam is more likely than other religions to encourage violence has dropped four percentage points since a historical high of 50 % in September 2014 . For much of the past decade , public views on this measure have been closely divided . The partisan divide over whether Islam encourages violence is now as wide as it has ever been . Fully 68 % of Republicans say Islam encourages violence more than other religions , a historical high but little changed since last fall . By contrast , just 30 % of Democrats say Islam is more likely to encourage violence than other religions , down from 42 % in September 2014 , but on par with Democratic opinion at other points in recent years . Independents remain split over this question : 45 % say Islam is more likely to encourage violence than other religions , while the same proportion ( 45 % ) say it is not .
Seven years after the beginning of the global financial crisis , a Pew Research Center survey of 40 nations finds that publics in fewer than half the countries have a positive view of their economy . A median of just 40 % in advanced economies say economic conditions are good , as do 45 % in emerging economies and 46 % in developing nations . Such overall sentiment is largely unchanged from economic sentiment in comparable countries in 2014 .
On the one hand , the percentage of Latinos in the U.S. who are Catholic is declining , according to a major new Pew Research Center report . A majority ( 55 % ) of the nation 's estimated 35.4 million Latino adults – or about 19.6 million Latinos – identify as Catholic , but that 's down from two-thirds ( 67 % ) as recently as 2010 . Today , nearly one-in-four Latino adults ( 24 % ) are now former Catholics . ( We also asked about the reasons Latinos are leaving Catholicism . )
According to the Pew Hispanic Center 's population estimates and projections , the Hispanic population increased from 8.5 million in 1966 - 67 to 44.7 million today . Latinos accounted for 36 % of the 100 million added to the population in the last four decades , the most of any racial or ethnic group . Immigration from Latin America and relatively high fertility rates among Latinos were major factors in this increase . The white population grew from 167.2 million in 1966 - 67 to 201.0 million today . That represented 34 % of the 100 million added since 1966 - 67 .
Russia and Israel have gained confidence in the U.S. president . Since Obama 's final term , confidence has gone up among Russians and Israelis . This year , 53 % of Russians have at least some confidence in the U.S. president , up from an Obama-era low of 11 % in 2015 . Russian confidence in Obama rose and fell over the president 's eight years in office , which saw tensions with Russia over Ukraine and other issues . In Israel , 56 % are confident in President Trump , up from 49 % confidence for Obama in 2015 . Over the past 15 years , Israeli confidence in the U.S. president was highest in 2003 , when 83 % said they had at least some confidence in George W. Bush .
A majority of the public has at least some confidence in the Secret Service to improve its job performance . About seven-in-ten , including roughly equal shares of Republicans and Democrats , say they have a great deal ( 19 % ) or fair amount of confidence ( 50 % ) in the agency to improve the job it does providing security . Roughly three-in-ten offer not too much confidence ( 21 % ) or no confidence at all ( 8 % ) in the agency to get better .
Overall , 59 % of Americans think news organizations do not understand people like them , while a minority – 37 % – say they do feel understood . This feeling is about on par with the last time the question was asked in 2018 .
About 16 million Americans are self-employed , according to BLS data from July of this year . But the impact of the self-employed is wider : A Pew Research Center report found that self-employed Americans and the people working for them together accounted for 30 % of the nation 's workforce , or 44 million jobs in total in 2014 . Only about a quarter of self-employed people ( 3.4 million ) had employees of their own , though , and those who did have workers did n't have very many : Among self-employed people with employees , the median in 2014 was three and the average was 8.6 .
Gasoline prices have been dropping since midsummer , and consumers ' confidence about the economy has been on the rise . Could there be a connection ? According to a new Pew Research Center report , 70 % of Americans now report hearing mostly good news about gas prices , up from just 15 % in August . In truth , gas prices have been falling for months : As of Monday , the national average price of a gallon of self-serve regular was $ 2.554 — $ 1.15 less than in late June ( representing a nearly one-third drop ) , according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration . That 's the cheapest gas has been since October 2009 . Also , Brent crude oil has fallen more than $ 45 a barrel since June and is now below $ 59 a barrel for the first time since May 2009 .
U.S. fathers today are spending more time caring for their children than they did a half-century ago . Still , most ( 63 % ) say they spend too little time with their kids and a much smaller share ( 36 % ) say they spend the right amount of time with them , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in August and September 2017 . Moms , by comparison , still do more of the child care and are more likely than dads to say they are satisfied with the amount of time they spend with their kids . About half ( 53 % ) say this , while only 35 % say they spend too little time with their children , according to the survey .
Just as with other populations , differences in voter turnout rates exist among Latino eligible voters . In 2010 , Latino college graduates had the highest voter turnout rate ( 50.3 % ) among Latino eligible voters , while young Latinos ages 18 to 29 had the lowest ( 17.6 % ) . Differences in participation rates also exist by country of origin . Nearly half ( 49.3 % ) of Cuban-origin Latinos voted in 2010 compared with 29.6 % of Puerto Rican-origin Latinos and 28.7 % of Mexican-origin Latinos . Similarly , a greater share of naturalized foreign-born Latinos than native-born Latinos voted—36.6 % versus 29.2 % .
The new survey finds that public concerns about the nation 's budget deficit are lower today than during Barack Obama 's presidency . About half of Americans ( 54 % ) view the deficit as a `` very serious '' problem for the country , while 35 % regard it as a `` somewhat serious '' problem . Very few , just 10 % , think it is not much of a problem .
Public opinion about whether the U.S. has a responsibility to accept Syrian refugees has not changed since February , though the share saying the U.S. has a responsibility to accept Syrian refugees is higher today ( 47 % ) than it was last October ( 40 % ) . The partisan divisions on this issue remain stark .
But for all the attention paid to those brand-name institutions , the full picture of college admissions is quite different : The great majority of schools , where most Americans get their postsecondary education , admit most of the people who apply to them , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Education Department data . Of the 1,364 four-year colleges and universities we looked at , 17 admitted fewer than 10 % of applicants in 2017 , the most recent year for which comprehensive data are available . That group includes such prestigious names as Stanford ( 4.7 % ) , Harvard ( 5.2 % ) , Yale ( 6.9 % ) and Northwestern ( 9.2 % ) . Another 29 schools admitted between 10 % and 20 % of applicants , including Georgetown ( 15.7 % ) , the University of Southern California ( 16 % ) , UCLA ( 16.1 % ) and the University of California , Berkeley ( 17.1 % ) . All those schools , along with three others with higher admission rates , have been caught up in the admissions scandal – either because coaches and other athletic personnel were indicted on charges of taking bribes to designate unqualified students as `` recruited athletes , '' or because parents of current students are accused of paying for other kinds of cheating ( including on admissions tests ) to get their children admitted .
Views of the national economy had been on a positive trajectory until this month . The percentage rating the economy as excellent or good had risen from 13 % in January to 23 % in June , before falling back to 17 % in the current survey .
Overall , the Japanese public is decidedly pessimistic about how things are going in their country . Fully 78 % express dissatisfaction with the country 's direction , while an overwhelming 93 % describe the current state of the economy as bad . Compared with last year , fewer expect the economic situation to worsen , but the prevailing view is that the economy will stagnate , rather than improve in the months ahead .
While affiliated women are less likely to attend services weekly in recent years ( 33 % ) than they were in the mid-1980s ( 40 % ) , affiliated men 's attendance patterns have been much more stable over time . If anything , affiliated men have recently become more likely to say they attend services weekly ; 24 % of affiliated men said this in the mid-1990s compared with 28 % in the current decade .
Of the 25 publics surveyed , South Koreans are the most likely to name the United States as the world 's leading economic power — eight-in-ten say that is the case . By comparison , just 48 % of Americans name their own country as the world 's leading economy . About one-in-ten South Koreans ( 12 % ) say China is the dominant economic power . The U.S. is also seen as the world 's leading economic power by a majority in Japan . Nearly six-in-ten Japanese ( 58 % ) characterize the U.S. this way , compared with 21 % who name China . The Chinese are evenly divided — 41 % say the U.S. is currently the dominant economic power and 41 % name their own country . This is a significant shift from last year , when about half ( 48 % ) described the U.S. as the world 's leading economy and just 21 % described China this way .
In most of the countries surveyed , relatively few people ( median of 34 % ) have access to a desktop computer , laptop or tablet in their household . The exception is Lebanon , where a majority of adults ( 57 % ) say they have access to such a device . As with most other measures of technological connectedness , those who are younger and more educated are generally more likely to have access to a computer or tablet at home . Anywhere from 28 % ( in India ) to 52 % ( in Jordan ) of adults in these countries use the internet in some fashion but do not have a computer or tablet at home . And a median of 27 % of adults in these countries say they do not have a tablet or computer at home but do have a smartphone , ranging from a low of 18 % in Venezuela to a high of 50 % in Jordan .
The gender gap in pay has narrowed since 1980 , but it has remained relatively stable over the past 15 years or so . In 2018 , women earned 85 % of what men earned , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of median hourly earnings of both full- and part-time workers in the United States . Based on this estimate , it would take an extra 39 days of work for women to earn what men did in 2018 . The 2018 wage gap was somewhat smaller for adults ages 25 to 34 than for all workers 16 and older , our analysis found . Women ages 25 to 34 earned 89 cents for every dollar a man in the same age group earned . The estimated 15-cent gender pay gap among all workers in 2018 has narrowed from 36 cents in 1980 . For young women , the gap has narrowed by a similar margin over time . In 1980 , women ages 25 to 34 earned 33 cents less than their male counterparts , compared with 11 cents in 2018 .
The results show that many non-Muslims associate negative traits with Muslims . Majorities in Nigeria , India , Spain , Russia , and Germany see Muslims as violent . Large numbers , including majorities in India , Nigeria , and Russia , also consider Muslims arrogant . Many also associate selfishness with Muslims , although India is the only country where a majority does so . Non-Muslims are less likely to rate Muslims as greedy or immoral — in France for instance , only 10 % say Muslims are greedy and just 18 % label Muslims as immoral . The data on Muslim attitudes towards Westerners also reveal a variety of negative views . In the five majority Muslim countries , as well as Nigeria , at least 40 % of Muslims characterize Westerners as arrogant , violent , greedy , and immoral ; meanwhile , relatively few say Westerners are generous or honest . Muslims in these countries are also especially likely to say Westerners are selfish — in all six countries , majorities suggest selfishness is common among people in Europe and the United States . Negative assessments of Westerners are fairly common across all six of these countries , although they are slightly more prevalent in Jordan and Indonesia . In contrast , European Muslims are consistently less likely to associate negative characteristics with Westerners and are more likely to label them as generous and honest .
Last year , a Pew Research survey found a decline in the proportion of the public saying labor unions are necessary to protect working people , while more expressed concern about the power of unions . In April 2009 , 61 % agreed with the statement `` labor unions are necessary to protect the working person , '' down from 68 % in 2007 and 74 % in 2003 . In the same survey , six-in-ten ( 61 % ) agreed that `` labor unions have too much power , '' up from 52 % in 1999 .
These states have metro areas that are home to large technology and finance hubs such as San Jose , Dallas , Houston and New York City . New Jersey had 9.4 visa approvals per 1,000 workers , the highest ratio in the nation . Maryland had the second-highest ratio , with 4.9 H-1B approvals per 1,000 workers .
Republicans overwhelmingly favor the construction of a wall along the U.S.-Mexican border . But Republicans who live closer to the border are less likely to support the wall than are those who live farther away . A survey last month by Pew Research Center found that 35 % of the public favored building a wall along the entire U.S-Mexican border , while 62 % were opposed . Nearly three-quarters of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 74 % ) supported building the wall , compared with just 8 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . A new analysis of this data finds that 63 % of Republicans who live less than 350 miles from the border support building the wall , compared with 34 % who oppose the wall . Those who live at least 350 miles away from the border , by contrast , are more supportive of the wall ( 76 % favor , 21 % oppose ) . Democratic opposition to the wall is overwhelming , both among Democrats who live less than 350 miles away from the U.S.-Mexico border ( 83 % oppose ) and those who live farther away ( 90 % oppose ) .
In the same survey , Republicans were far more likely than Democrats to express confidence that the election will be conducted fairly and that all citizens who want to vote will be able to do so . Overall , majorities of Americans said they are at least somewhat confident that the election will be conducted fairly and accurately ( 59 % ) and that all citizens who want to vote will be able to do so ( 63 % ) . But Republicans were far more likely than Democrats to express confidence on both fronts . Three-quarters of Republicans expressed confidence that the election will be fair and accurate , compared with 46 % of Democrats . An even larger majority of Republicans ( 87 % ) said they are confident that all citizens who want to vote will be able to , compared with just 43 % of Democrats .
In most developing economies , majorities say success is determined by outside forces , including 74 % in Bangladesh and 67 % in Ghana . Nicaraguans are the least likely to agree among developing countries .
Overall , 58 % say North Korea 's leadership is not serious about addressing international concerns about their country 's nuclear enrichment program . This is higher than the share that said this in May 2018 ( 49 % ) . Today , 35 % say they think North Korea 's leadership is serious about addressing these concerns – similar to the share who expressed this view in 2018 .
A notable parallel between anti-Muslim and anti-Jewish opinion in Western Europe is that both sentiments are most prevalent among the same groups of people . Older people and those with less education are more anti-Semitic and anti-Muslim than are younger people or those with more education . Looking at combined data from France , Germany and Spain – the three Western European countries where unfavorable opinions of Jews are most common – people ages 50 and older express more negative views of both Jews and Muslims than do those younger than 50 . Similarly , Europeans who have not attended college are consistently more likely than those who have to hold unfavorable opinions of both groups . There are some political parallels too . Anti-Muslim and anti-Jewish opinions are most prevalent among Europeans on the political right . For example , among respondents from France , Germany and Spain who place themselves on the political right , 56 % express a negative view of Muslims , compared with 42 % of those on the left and 45 % of those in the center . Similarly , 34 % of people on the political right have a negative opinion of Jews , compared with 28 % of those on the left and 26 % of centrists .
An estimated 243,000 Hispanics of Argentinean origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Argentineans are the 14th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 0.5 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013 . Since 1990 , the Argentinean-origin population has more than doubled , growing from 103,000 to 243,000 over the period . At the same time , the Argentinean foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 85 % , up from 81,000 in 1990 to 149,000 in 2013 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 34.6 million , or 64.1 % , of the Hispanic population in 2013 .
But , judging by the results of our recently released survey on religion in everyday life , religion does indeed seem to be a subject many people avoid . About half of U.S. adults tell us they seldom ( 33 % ) or never ( 16 % ) talk about religion with people outside their family . And roughly four-in-ten say they seldom ( 26 % ) or never ( 13 % ) discuss religion even with members of their immediate family . So who does talk about religion ? Well , not surprisingly , religious people do . According to the new report , fully two-thirds of highly religious Americans – defined as those who say they pray daily and attend religious services weekly – report that they talk about religion with their immediate families at least once a week , and 43 % say they talk about religion with people outside their families each week . Among less religious Americans , by contrast , just one-in-five ( 19 % ) say they talk about religion with members of their immediate family and only about one-in-ten ( 9 % ) discuss religion with people outside their family each week .
Accompanying technological advancements are greater digital security risks – another focus of the G20 . People in most surveyed G20 countries say it is likely that cyberattacks will damage public infrastructure like power grids or internet systems . People in Japan , South Korea and the U.S. are especially concerned , with more than eight-in-ten adults in each country saying that such cyberattacks are likely .
Neither ElBaradei , the National Salvation Front party ( NSF ) to which he belongs nor al-Nour are regarded favorably by the Egyptian public , according a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March . Over half ( 54 % ) regarded ElBaradei unfavorably , compared to 40 % who had positive views of him . Similarly , Egyptians regarded the NSF unfavorably by a 52 % to 45 % margin , and al-Nour unfavorably by 52 % to 40 % . Egypt 's Supreme Council of the Armed Forces that took over Morsi 's government , was seen favorably in March by 67 % of the public . The only other figure or institution that enjoys support from a sizable majority was the Muslim Brotherhood ( 63 % ) . But that figure represented a decline from 75 % in 2011 and 70 % last year ; and , the ratings of the Freedom and Justice Party , the Brotherhood 's political wing , were about the same as those of Morsi – about half ( 52 % ) seeing the party favorably and 44 % regarding it unfavorably .
Amid this tension between personal privacy and public safety , 52 % of Americans surveyed in early April say it is at least somewhat acceptable for the government to use people 's cellphones to track the location of those who have tested positive for the virus to understand how the virus is spreading , but a similar share ( 48 % ) believes this is very or somewhat unacceptable to do . At the same time , 45 % of the public says it is acceptable for the government to use cellphones to track the location of people who may have had contact with someone who tested positive for COVID-19 , while a somewhat larger share ( 54 % ) describes this type of tracking as unacceptable . Republicans and Democrats tend to hold contrasting views about the appropriateness of tracking people 's movements during the pandemic . While 61 % of Democrats say it is very or somewhat acceptable for the government to use cellphones to track the location of people who have tested positive for the coronavirus in order to understand how the virus may be spreading , that share falls to fewer than half among Republicans ( 45 % ) . Independents ' views fall in between these two groups . Overall , Hispanic Americans are more accepting of these measures than black or white people . For example , 55 % of Hispanic adults say it is at least somewhat acceptable for the government to use cellphones to track the location of people to make sure they are limiting social contact during the outbreak , compared with 45 % of black adults and just 31 % of whites . There are similar patterns by race and ethnicity when asked about location tracking for those who have tested positive for the virus or who may have been in contact with someone who was infected . Age is also a factor . Americans ages 30 and older are more likely than those ages 18 t0 29 to say it is acceptable for the government to track the location of people through their cellphone to ensure they are complying with experts ' advice on limiting social contact ( 39 % vs. 28 % ) or to track the location of people who may have had contact with someone who tested positive ( 47 % vs. 38 % ) .
Moreover , there is considerable evidence that the opinion many Muslims have of the United States has gone beyond mere loathing . In this year 's Pew survey , majorities in seven of eight predominantly Muslims nations believe the U.S. may someday threaten their country — including 71 % in Turkey and 58 % in Lebanon . And Muslims are increasingly hostile to Americans as well as America ; in the past , as the 1983 Newsweek survey showed , people did not let their distaste for U.S. policies affect their view of the American people . In addition , an overwhelming percentage in most Muslim nations – and as many as half or more in countries like Brazil and South Korea – said they were disappointed that the Iraqi military put up so little resistance in the war against the United States .
Similarly , self-described libertarians do not differ a great deal from the public in opinions about foreign policy . Libertarianism is generally associated with a less activist foreign policy , yet a greater share of self-described libertarians ( 43 % ) than the public ( 35 % ) think `` it is best for the future of our country to be active in world affairs . ''
Pew Research Center also asked about how minorities are depicted in video games . Roughly half ( 47 % ) of American adults say they are unsure of whether video games portray minority groups poorly . Interestingly , this is the most common response regardless of race or ethnicity . Blacks ( 13 % ) are more likely than whites ( 7 % ) to say most video games portray minority groups poorly . Still , close to half of all blacks ( 47 % ) say they are uncertain if video games depict minorities in a bad light .
Overall , 43 % of U.S. adults say that law enforcement does not take incidents of online harassment seriously enough . Another 19 % feel that police do take harassment complaints seriously , and 32 % are unsure of how law enforcement handles this issue .
All citizen panelists – whether voters or nonvoters – were asked which U.S. House candidate they supported in the general election . Nonvoters tend to express more uncertainty about the choice , owing in large part to the fact that many of them pay little attention to politics . But among those who did express a preference , Democratic candidates led Republican candidates by 14 percentage points ( 44 % to 30 % ) a larger margin than among voters ( 9 points , 53 % to 44 % ) .
Bias is not the only potential problem arising from survey non-coverage . Because the decline of landline coverage has not been uniform across demographic groups , some key subgroups in surveys based only on landlines may be severely underrepresented , making reliable estimates of attitudes or behaviors among those groups difficult or impossible to obtain . For example , respondents ages 18 - 29 now constitute just 7 % of a typical landline sample , less than one-third of their proper proportion in the population according to the latest American Community Survey estimates ( 22 % ) . The shortfall is not limited just to the very young , in part because many people maintain phone status as they age , and in part because even older adults are abandoning landline service . Consequently , the percentage of adults in their 30s and 40s represented in landline surveys now falls 12 percentage points short of the parameters ( 26 % vs. 38 % ) . As a result , adults 50 and older are significantly overrepresented in landline samples , comprising 66 % of the average landline sample when they should be only 40 % of the sample .
In 2010 , Pew Research surveyed publics in a number of countries , seven of which are also represented in this pay gap data , about whether `` men get more opportunities than women for jobs that pay well , even when women are as qualified as men for the job . '' Majorities in all seven countries agreed with the statement . Agreement ranged from about seven-in-ten in the U.S. and Spain ( 68 % ) , and up to more than eight-in-ten in Poland ( 83 % ) and Germany ( 84 % ) .
At the same time , Indians show little enthusiasm for expanding immigration into their country . Roughly three-in-ten Indians ( 29 % ) say their government should allow fewer immigrants , with an additional 16 % volunteering that there should be no immigration at all . Just 13 % think more immigration into India should be encouraged , and 11 % think immigration levels should stay about the same as they are now . In 2017 , just over 5 million people ( or less than 1 % of the population ) living in India were born in other countries , with most of them coming from neighboring Bangladesh , Pakistan and Nepal .
Much of the increase in positive views of the impact of the Affordable Care Act – and support for the law – has come among Democrats . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents now say the law has had a positive effect on the country .
The answer was clear . Across the board , more respondents said communication skills were most important , followed by reading , math , teamwork , writing and logic . Science fell somewhere in the middle , with more than half of Americans saying it was important . Note : This survey was conducted through Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel , a nationally representative panel of randomly selected U.S. adults . The survey was conducted Sept. 9-Oct. 3 , 2014 , among 3,154 respondents and had a margin of error of 2.7 percentage points . Topline results can be found here .
Americans are increasingly likely to make political donations , with the share of adults who say they have donated directly to candidates doubling since 1992 , according to data from American National Election Studies ( ANES ) . Political donations from individuals represent a large share of campaign funding : In the 2016 election cycle , 71 % of Hillary Clinton 's fundraising total and 40 % of Donald Trump 's came from individual contributions , according to the Center for Responsive Politics . More Americans are making political donations . Americans are now more likely to contribute to political candidates and parties than they were two decades ago , according to surveys conducted as part of ANES . The share of Americans who say they have donated to an individual running for public office within the past year has doubled , increasing from 6 % in 1992 to 12 % in 2016 . ( The survey does not specify type of candidate . ) The share of those who say they have donated to parties has also increased , rising from 4 % to 9 % across the same period , while the share making donations to outside groups working to elect or defeat a candidate – such as political action committees – has remained between 3 % and 6 % . Overall , the share of Americans who say they have donated to at least one of these groups within the past year has increased from 11 % in 1992 to 15 % in 2016 .
Asked to report how often their personal religious beliefs conflict with science , a median of just one-in-ten say there is often conflict . A median of 31 % across the 20 publics surveyed say such conflict occurs at least sometimes . Majorities across most of these publics say there is rarely or never conflict between the two . But when people think about the broad idea of whether science and religion are at odds , larger shares see the two as being in conflict ( 20-public median of 53 % ) . That point of view is particularly common among people who do not identify with a religious group .
Although there is a pervasive gloominess about the state of the economy throughout much of the world , Africans are relatively positive about their short- and long-term economic future . Across the nine African nations polled , a median of 60 % say they expect their country 's economy to improve over the next 12 months , the highest of any region . A median of 56 % believe children in their country today will be financially better off than their parents , and about seven-in-ten or more hold this view in Nigeria , Ethiopia and Burkina Faso . Africans continue to say their countries face a variety of challenges . Despite the optimism about the economic future , people still have many economic concerns – for instance , a median of 88 % say the lack of employment opportunities is a very big problem . And when asked about six potential areas for improvement , beyond strictly economic issues , many identify health care and education as top priorities . Health care is the top choice in eight of nine countries , while education tops the list in South Africa .
Survey respondents who said they believe in God with no doubts also disagreed most strongly ( 61 % ) with the statement `` In my opinion , life does not serve any purpose . '' Those who said they were certain they did not believe in God or who expressed more uncertainty about their belief were less likely than strong believers to reject the statement that life has no purpose . ( Only 49 % said they strongly disagreed ) . There were no statistically significant differences between those who were uncertain and those who did not believe in God .
Public interest in the Iraq war peaked during the conflict 's early phase in the spring of 2003 , and began to decline after the Pentagon declared an end to major combat operations . For the year in 2003 , 52 % of Americans followed news from Iraq very closely on average . Overall interest fell to 44 % in 2004 , on average , with the highest level of interest measured in April and May of that year , amid the insurgency in Fallujah and reports of prisoner abuse at Abu Ghraib ( 54 % very closely ) . Throughout 2005 and 2006 , public attentiveness to the situation in Iraq fluctuated in response to news events , but on average about four-in-ten followed the story very closely in both years . In the first 10 months of 2007 , public interest in Iraq has averaged 33 % in the weekly News Interest Index . Interest was significantly greater during January , when Bush announced a major troop increase in Iraq , than it has been in recent weeks . In the current survey , 31 % say they are following news about the situation in Iraq very closely , while 20 % named it as the story they followed most closely last week .
Part of these cross-country differences may stem from differences in which group people were asked about , given that past Pew Research Center analysis has shown that people tend to express much more support for taking in refugees fleeing violence and war than for immigrants moving to their country . Still , even across the three countries asked specifically about refugees – Jordan , Kenya and Lebanon – opinion differed substantially . For example , 76 % of Jordanians had a favorable view of refugees living in their country , compared with 58 % of Kenyans and 27 % of Lebanese .
Among Republicans and those who lean Republican , consistent conservatives constitute 32 % of self-reported 2014 primary voters and 37 % of 2010 primary voters in the voter file , compared with 21 % and 23 % overall among Republicans . Similarly , among Democrats , consistent liberals make up 34 % of those who say they voted in the 2014 primary and 42 % among 2010 voters in the voter file ; by comparison , they constitute 26 % and 29 % of all Democrats and leaners of the general public in 2014 and 2010 , respectively .
Republicans have their own differences : Those under age 30 are more than twice as likely as those 65 and older to support making college tuition free for all Americans ( 55 % vs. 24 % ) . And while Republicans who have completed college are mostly opposed to making tuition free for all American students , the proposal draws more support from Republicans who do not have a four-year degree . The differences among Republicans are particularly stark when combining age and educational attainment . Among Republicans under age 50 who have not completed college , 58 % favor making college tuition free for all Americans . Among Republican college graduates , only 34 % favor this . Support for tuition-free college declines among older Republicans , regardless of whether or not they have completed college . However , even among Republicans who are ages 50 and older , those who have not completed college are less supportive .
Partisan divisions have emerged in the U.S. when it comes to Putin . Americans consistently have expressed little confidence in Putin to do the right thing on world affairs , but Republicans and Democrats differ somewhat in these views . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are now 21 points more likely than Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents to express confidence in Putin ( 31 % vs. 10 % ) , the widest partisan gap on this question in Pew Research Center polling .
Conversely , although about three-quarters of Biden voters say they are at least somewhat confident that all voters who are legally qualified and want to vote will be able to cast a ballot , nearly all ( 99 % ) say it is important that they be able to do so . Among Trump supporters , more than nine-in-ten say both that they are confident that all eligible voters will be able to cast ballots ( 93 % ) and that this is important ( 99 % ) .
About a quarter of LGBT men may be getting Happy Fathers ' Day wishes today . According to the Pew Research Center 's new survey of LGBT Americans , 23 % of LGBT men are fathers , including 16 % of gay men and 32 % of bisexual men . LGBT men are significantly less likely than men in the general public to be fathers : Seven-in-ten American men are fathers , according to Pew Research Center polling . And , LGBT women are about twice as likely as LGBT men to be parents : 48 % are mothers , including 31 % of lesbians and 59 % of bisexual women .
Shortly before the outbreak , about four-in-ten Latinos ( 38 % ) said they had experienced discrimination in the 12 months prior to the December 2019 survey , such as being criticized for speaking Spanish in public or being told to go back to their home country . At the same time , a smaller share ( 30 % ) of Latinos said someone had expressed support for them because of their Latino background . More than a quarter ( 28 % ) of Hispanics said they had experienced another kind of discrimination or been treated unfairly due to their background . Meanwhile , about a fifth said they had been called offensive names ( 21 % ) , been criticized for speaking Spanish in public ( 20 % ) or been told to go back to their home country ( 19 % ) .
In other news this week , interest in the economy remained high , in spite of relatively little coverage . Fully 37 % of the public followed news about the economy very closely , down slightly from 40 % earlier this month . And 15 % listed conditions in the U.S. economy as the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . The national news media devoted 6 % of its overall coverage to the economy .
Democrats , once deeply divided in their views of immigrants , today have increasingly positive views of them . Republicans , who were negative toward immigrants 20 years ago and were divided a decade ago , remain divided today .
The survey also probed internet users on incidents of harassment that they witnessed online : About a quarter ( 24 % ) said they had seen someone being physically threatened , 19 % reported seeing sexual harassment and 18 % saw incidents of stalking . Another quarter said they had witnessed someone being harassed for sustained periods of time online .
As with his overall job approval , Barack Obama 's favorability rating has shown little change . Overall , 50 % have a favorable view of him , while about as many ( 48 % ) view him unfavorably . In January , 51 % held a favorable view of the president . Michelle Obama remains more positively viewed than her husband . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) have a favorable view of the first lady compared with just 30 % who have an unfavorable view . Nonetheless , Michelle Obama 's favorable ratings have edged down slightly from January , when 68 % viewed her favorably .
Catalonia 's recent secession attempts come at a difficult time for Spain . Across the country , people distrust the national government and feel dissatisfied with the way democracy is working in their nation . And Catalans are even more negative on these issues than those living in other regions of Spain , according to a new analysis of data from a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March and April . An overwhelming majority of the Spanish public ( 81 % ) does not trust the national government to do the right thing for their country . In Catalonia , this figure reaches 91 % , including 53 % who say they do not trust Madrid at all . In other regions of Spain , 79 % lack trust in their government and only about four-in-ten express absolutely no trust . Spanish people are also unhappy about their democracy . Overall , 74 % say they are dissatisfied with the way democracy is working in their nation . Among Catalans , this figure is 81 % , with 41 % saying they are not at all satisfied . While 73 % of people living in other regions of Spain are dissatisfied with democracy , only 28 % feel this way strongly .
Today , 76 % of Republicans have a cold view of Democrats ( rating them 0 - 49 on the 0 - 100 scale ) , with about half ( 53 % ) rating Democrats very coldly ( 0 - 24 ) . Very cold ratings for Democrats among Republicans are higher today than in December 2016 ( 33 % ) , after the election , or in March of last year ( 46 % ) during the primary campaign .
Seven-in-ten Egyptians express a favorable view of the Muslim Brotherhood , down just slightly from 75 % a year ago . Most ( 56 % ) also have a positive opinion of the Brotherhood-affiliated Freedom and Justice Party ( FJP ) , the largest party in the newly elected parliament . The more conservative al-Nour fares less well : 44 % have a favorable and 44 % an unfavorable view of the Salafist party . Hazem Salah Abu Ismail , a Salafist leader who was recently disqualified as a presidential candidate , gets somewhat better ratings ( 52 % positive , 42 % negative ) . The April 6th Movement , a loose organization of mostly young and secular activists that played a key role in the demonstrations that forced Hosni Mubarak from office , is rated favorably by 68 % of Egyptians . However , the Egyptian Bloc , a mostly secular coalition of political parties , is not popular – just 38 % assign it a positive rating .
In our 2013 survey on radical life extension , 56 % of adults said they would not want to live at least 120 years , which is considered the current upper limit of the human life span . Likewise , roughly two-thirds of adults in our 2016 poll on human enhancement said they would not want a brain chip implant to improve their cognitive abilities ( 66 % ) or synthetic blood to augment their physical abilities ( 63 % ) . American adults were somewhat more open to the possibility of using gene editing to reduce the risk of serious disease in babies , with 48 % saying they would be interested , but a similar share ( 50 % ) said they would not want to use the technology on their baby .
An estimated 679,000 Hispanics of Peruvian origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Peruvians in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Peruvian origin ; this includes immigrants from Peru and those who trace their family ancestry to Peru . Peruvians are the 11th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for about 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Peruvian-origin population has increased 174 % , growing from 248,000 to 679,000 over the period . At the same time , the Peruvian foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 120 % , from 193,000 in 2000 to 423,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
Nearly half of voters say they voted by mail or absentee . Largely because of concerns over the pandemic , mail and absentee voting increased dramatically in 2020 . Nearly half of voters ( 46 % ) say they voted by absentee or mail – including 18 % who report casting ballots by mail for the first time . A 54 % majority say they voted in person , with equal shares voting on Election Day or before the election .
Public opinion about gun control has changed little in recent years . In the latest Pew Research survey on the topic in April , 49 % say it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns , while 45 % say it is more important to control gun ownership . Opinion has been divided since early 2009 , shortly after Barack Obama 's election . Still , the public has become more supportive of gun rights over time . From 1993 through 2008 , majorities had said it was more important to control gun ownership than to protect gun rights . ( See : `` More Support for Gun Rights , Gay Marriage than in 2008 or 2004 '' , April 25 , 2012 ) In May 1999 , shortly after the Columbine shootings , about two-thirds ( 65 % ) said they thought it more important to control gun ownership than to protect the right to own guns . In April 2008 , 58 % said it was more important to control gun-ownership than to protect gun rights . One year later , 49 % said this .
For the first time since 2011 , about as many have a positive as negative impression of the Republican Party : 47 % now hold a favorable view of the GOP , compared with 49 % who have an unfavorable view . The share who views the Republican Party favorably is up 7 percentage points since October and is 14 points higher than it was in April of 2016 . Ratings of the Democratic Party remain somewhat more positive than those of the Republican Party , though the gap in assessments of the two parties has narrowed . Overall , slightly more hold a favorable ( 51 % ) than unfavorable ( 45 % ) view of the Democratic Party . These ratings are about the same as they were last October .
Additionally , a median of 29 % of mobile owners in these 11 emerging economies say they have frequently or occasionally experienced problems finding information online in their preferred language . This problem ranges from 17 % of mobile owners in Jordan to 37 % in South Africa .
In the Center 's June survey , 60 % of Americans say that changing election rules to make it easier to register and vote would not make elections any less secure , while 37 % say that elections would be less secure if it were easier to register and vote . These views are little changed from 2018 . Majorities of Black , white and Hispanic Americans hold the view that making it easier to vote would not make elections any less secure , but Black Americans are especially likely to say this ( 70 % vs. 58 % among both white and Hispanic Americans ) . However , there is a stark partisan divide in these views : Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats ( 79 % ) say that changes to election rules to make it easier to register and vote would not make elections any less secure , while 59 % of Republicans say they would .
These are some of the findings from a new pair of surveys conducted by the Pew Research Center in collaboration with the AAAS . The survey of the general public was conducted by landline and cellular telephone August 15 - 25 , 2014 with a representative sample of 2,002 adults nationwide . The margin of sampling error for results based on all adults is plus or minus 3.1 percentage points . The survey of scientists is based on a representative sample of 3,748 U.S.-based members of AAAS ; the survey was conducted online from Sept. 11 to Oct. 13 , 2014 . The largest differences between the public and the AAAS scientists are found in beliefs about the safety of eating genetically modified ( GM ) foods . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) scientists say it is generally safe to eat GM foods compared with 37 % of the general public , a difference of 51 percentage points . One possible reason for the gap : when it comes to GM crops , two-thirds of the public ( 67 % ) say scientists do not have a clear understanding about the health effects .
A majority of Tunisians ( 59 % ) now say they should rely on a leader with a strong hand to solve their country 's problems , up 19 percentage points in just a year . Roughly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) believe that a democratic form of government is the best solution to the mounting challenges Tunisia faces , a substantial decline from 2013 when more than half ( 53 % ) said democracy was the best way . Following Ben Ali 's ouster , 61 % thought a democratic form of government was preferable to a strong leader .
However , this skeptical outlook on government does not mean people have given up on democracy or the ability of average citizens to have an impact on how the country is run . Roughly half or more in eight nations – Kenya , Nigeria , South Africa , the U.S. , India , Greece , Italy and Poland – say ordinary citizens can have a lot of influence on government . Hungary , where 61 % say there is little citizens can do , is the lone nation where pessimism clearly outweighs optimism on this front .
Between 2004 and 2016 , foreign graduates with master 's degrees far outnumbered all other degree holders under OPT , making up 57 % ( 840,800 ) of all graduates in the program . The number of master 's degree holders also grew the most by far during the same time period , rising from 39,500 in 2004 to 172,900 in 2016 – a 337 % increase . By comparison , the number of OPT approvals for doctorate degree holders grew by 187 % , bachelor 's by 115 % and associate degree holders by just 21 % .
Many Russians see inherent conflict in their relationship with the West , but few rule out cooperation . According to a recently released Pew Research Center report based on 2015 survey data , overwhelming majorities in Russia believe that their country serves as an important counterbalance to the West ( 85 % ) and that Russian values clash with Western values ( 73 % ) .
Our 2017 survey of U.S. Muslims finds that Muslims in the United States perceive a lot of discrimination against their religious group . Moreover , a solid majority of U.S. Muslims are leery of President Donald Trump and think their fellow Americans do not see Islam as part of mainstream U.S. society . At the same time , however , Muslim Americans overwhelmingly say they are proud to be Americans , believe that hard work generally brings success in this country and are satisfied with the way things are going in their own lives . Half of Muslim Americans say it has become harder to be Muslim in the U.S. in recent years . And 48 % say they have experienced at least one incident of discrimination in the past 12 months . But alongside these reports of discrimination , a similar – and growing – share ( 49 % ) of Muslim Americans say someone has expressed support for them because of their religion in the past year . And 55 % think Americans in general are friendly toward U.S. Muslims , compared with just 14 % who say they are unfriendly .
The language of news media consumption is changing for Hispanics : a growing share of Latino adults are consuming news in English from television , print , radio and internet outlets , and a declining share are doing so in Spanish , according to survey findings from the Pew Research Center . In 2012 , 82 % of Hispanic adults said they got at least some of their news in English,1 up from 78 % who said the same in 2006 . By contrast , the share who get at least some of their news in Spanish has declined , to 68 % in 2012 from 78 % in 2006 .
A desire for smaller government is particularly evident since Barack Obama took office . In four surveys over the past year , about half have consistently said they would rather have a smaller government with fewer services , while about 40 % have consistently preferred a bigger government providing more services . In October 2008 , shortly before the presidential election the public was evenly divided on this issue ( 42 % smaller government , 43 % bigger government ) .
In addition to exploring global views of President Trump , this survey also examines attitudes toward three other major leaders on the international stage . The results demonstrate that Trump is not the only world leader in whom global publics lack confidence . Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin also get poor marks , though neither is rated as negatively as the U.S. president . Across the 37 nations surveyed , a median of 28 % voice confidence in Xi , while 27 % feel this way about Putin .
An overwhelming majority of registered voters who support Biden ( 87 % ) say that acknowledging the country 's historical flaws makes the U.S. stronger . Trump supporters are evenly divided : Almost half ( 47 % ) say focusing on historical flaws makes the country weaker , while 51 % say that acknowledging flaws makes the country stronger .
In other news this week , interest in the economy remained high , in spite of relatively little coverage . Fully 37 % of the public followed news about the economy very closely , down slightly from 40 % earlier this month . And 15 % listed conditions in the U.S. economy as the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . The national news media devoted 6 % of its overall coverage to the economy . The shootings at Northern Illinois University which resulted in the death of seven people attracted only modest interest . Roughly a quarter of the public ( 26 % ) followed this story very closely , and 15 % listed this as their most closely followed story . Interest in this story was only slightly higher than interest in the shooting at a Cleveland , Ohio high school in October 2007 , in which only the shooter died ( 22 % followed that story very closely ) . In April 2007 , 45 % of the public paid very close attention to the shootings at Virginia Tech . Only 17 % of the public paid very close attention to Congress refusing to renew the Protect America Act , a temporary expansion of the government 's eavesdropping authority under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ( FISA ) . The national news media devoted 3 % of its overall coverage to this story .
The December 2019 survey also finds U.S. Hispanics are divided on how much of a common identity they share with other Americans , though views vary widely by immigrant generation . About half ( 53 % ) consider themselves to be a typical American , while 44 % say they are very different from a typical American . By contrast , only 37 % of immigrant Hispanics consider themselves a typical American . This share rises to 67 % among second-generation Hispanics and to 79 % among third-or-higher-generation Hispanics – views that partially reflect their birth in the U.S. and their experiences as lifelong residents of this country .
But the difference , while statistically significant , was small in absolute terms – smaller than the margin of sampling error in most polls . Obama 's average lead across the six surveys was 9.9 points among registered voters when cell phone and landline interviews were combined and weighted . If estimates had been based only on the weighted landline samples , Obama 's average lead would have been 7.6 points , an average bias of 2.3 percentage points on the margin , or about 1.2 points expressed as candidate error . Limiting the analysis to likely voters rather than all voters produced similar results . Obama 's average lead among likely voters was 8.2 points across all six dual frame surveys versus 5.8 points ( or 1.2 points as candidate error ) when the landline samples are analyzed alone . ( See the appendix for a detailed description of the sampling and weighting employed in this analysis . )
While the presence of sworn officers at secondary schools has become more common over the past decade , many schools report that these officers were only present at specific times rather than throughout the entire school day , according to the report ( data are for the 2015 - 16 school year , the most recent available ) . Secondary schools include middle and high schools , as well as combined schools .
Democrats and Republicans have starkly different opinions . Around three-quarters of Democrats ( 76 % ) said in the summer survey that the justices should base their rulings on their understanding of what the Constitution means in current times , while two-thirds of Republicans ( 67 % ) said the high court should decide cases based on the Constitution 's original meaning .
Even more striking than the changes in some core political and social values is the dramatic shift in party identification that has occurred during the past five years . In 2002 , the country was equally divided along partisan lines : 43 % identified with the Republican Party or leaned to the GOP , while an identical proportion said they were Democrats . Today , half of the public ( 50 % ) either identifies as a Democrat or says they lean to the Democratic Party , compared with 35 % who align with the GOP . Yet the Democrats ' growing advantage in party identification is tempered by the fact that the Democratic Party 's overall standing with the public is no better than it was when President Bush was first inaugurated in 2001 . Instead , it is the Republican Party that has rapidly lost public support , particularly among political independents . Faced with an unpopular president who is waging an increasingly unpopular war , the proportion of Americans who hold a favorable view of the Republican Party stands at 41 % , down 15 points since January 2001 . But during that same period , the proportion expressing a positive view of Democrats has declined by six points , to 54 % .
The Center survey also captured respondents ' sense of the degree to which scientific and religious explanations related to evolution are at odds . Those who believe humans and other living things have existed in their present form throughout time are closely divided over whether or not scientific and religious explanations for the origins of life can be compatible . A median of 48 % across the 17 publics with a large enough sample for analysis say they can , while a median of 45 % say the two can not be compatible . For example , among Americans who reject evolution , 48 % think scientific and religious explanations for the origins of life can be compatible , while an equal share ( 49 % ) says otherwise . There are wide differences of opinion on this question across all publics surveyed .
One big reason for the good performance of our visitors is that most of them are well educated , and college-educated people tend to do very well on the quiz . Nearly three-quarters of our website quiz takers ( 74 % ) are college graduates , while another 20 % have completed at least some college . Among the 1,041 adults in the general public sample , only 29 % had completed college and 29 % had some college experience .
More than one-in-five ( 22 % ) cited Obama 's trip when asked which of six top stories they followed most closely last week . Still , the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted April 3 - 6 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , shows that economic troubles at home were not far behind : 17 % say they followed reports about rising unemployment most closely and 13 % say they followed reports about financial problems in the U.S. auto industry most closely .
Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say they followed news about Haiti most closely , while about two-in-ten say they followed news about the economy ( 21 % ) or the storms ( 20 % ) more closely than any other major story . One-in-ten say they followed news about the opening of the Winter Olympics in Vancouver , Canada , most closely , while smaller numbers say continuing safety concerns about Toyota vehicles ( 4 % ) and former President Clinton 's heart troubles ( 1 % ) were their top stories of the week .
The record number1 of Latinos who cast ballots for president this year are the leading edge of an ascendant ethnic voting bloc that is likely to double in size within a generation , according to a Pew Hispanic Center analysis based on U.S. Census Bureau data , Election Day exit polls and a new nationwide survey of Hispanic immigrants .
Japan : Low ratings for Trump , but overall assessment of U.S. recovers Japanese trust in the U.S. president has also suffered under Donald Trump , but America 's overall image has not . In 2018 , just three-in-ten Japanese say they have confidence in Trump 's handling of world affairs , a slight improvement over their view in 2017 , but significantly lower than their views of the U.S. president throughout the Obama administration . Opinion of Trump is comparable to sentiment about George W. Bush during his time in office . Fully 67 % of Japanese , however , have a favorable view of the U.S. , up 10 percentage points from last year . Despite the high ratings for the U.S. , there are concerns in Japan about the trajectory of American power – it is the only country where a majority ( 55 % ) believes the U.S. is less powerful than 10 years ago .
Nonetheless , Muslims generally are no less supportive of keeping religion separate from government policy than are people in other countries . Indeed , in predominantly Muslim countries with secular traditions , such as Turkey , Senegal and Mali , roughly seven-in-ten respondents completely agreed that religion should be kept separate from government policy . In the U.S. , significantly fewer ( 55 % ) expressed that view .
For example , Americans have a better opinion of the National Rifle Association these days than they did in the mid 1990 's . Over this same period , public calls for stricter gun-control laws have also quieted somewhat . A recent Pew nationwide survey found a 52 % -to-32 % majority of respondents holding a favorable opinion of the NRA , which will hold its massive annual convention on April 13 - 15 this year in St. Louis . While this is the first time since 1994 that the favorability rating of the group has crossed the 50 % mark , positive views of the NRA have been inching upward in Pew polls in recent years .
Republicans hold a 49 % -40 % lead over the Democrats in leaned party identification among whites . The Democrats hold an 80 % -11 % advantage among blacks , and lead by more than two-to-one among Hispanics ( 56 % -26 % ) . Asian Americans also lean Democratic by a wide margin ( 65 % -23 % ) . This data for Asian Americans is based on interviews conducted in English . Back to top
The latest Pew Research Center News IQ survey finds that , nearly half a century after the death of Martin Luther King Jr. , an overwhelming majority of Americans ( 91 % ) are able to identify the civil rights leader from his picture . The survey , conducted March 10-April 6 among 3,147 adults who are part of the Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel , also finds a large majority are able to associate a photograph of Kim Jong-un with the country he leads . Shown a picture of Kim Jong-un , 82 % say he leads North Korea ( from a list that includes South Korea , China and Malaysia ) . The survey was conducted in the weeks leading up to the April 15 tax deadline : 84 % know that in order to comply with the health care law , they must indicate on their taxes that they have health insurance coverage . The other choices given for demonstrating health coverage were when people vote , change their address , or get a driver 's license .
There is also widespread pessimism about the economic future . Majorities in most of the nations polled say that when children in their country grow up , they will be worse off financially than their parents , including eight-in-ten people in France who hold this view . Poland again stands out as having more positive views : 59 % of Poles are optimistic about the next generation 's economic prospects .
What 's striking in some countries is the role partisanship plays in evaluations of a country 's growing or diminishing prominence on the world stage . In the U.S. , for example , 45 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say the U.S. plays a more important role as a world leader today than in the past – a marked change from 2016 , when just 15 % said this . Views among Democrats have moved in the opposite direction following the change of administration . Only around one-in-five ( 19 % ) think the U.S. plays a more important leadership role today than it did 10 years ago , down from 27 % in 2016 . About half of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 49 % ) now say the U.S. plays a less important role today than in the past ; in 2016 , just 29 % said this .
Most Americans favor allowing unmarried couples to have the same legal rights as married couples . Roughly two-thirds of adults ( 65 % ) say they favor allowing unmarried couples to enter into legal agreements that would give them the same rights as married couples when it comes to things like health insurance , inheritance or tax benefits , while 34 % oppose this . Democrats and those who lean toward the Democratic Party are far more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to favor allowing these types of legal agreements for unmarried couples . About three-quarters of Democrats ( 77 % ) favor this , including 45 % who strongly favor it . By contrast , Republicans are about evenly split : 50 % favor and 49 % oppose this . Party differences are also evident in views concerning the acceptability of cohabitation , the societal benefits of marriage , the impact of cohabitation on the success of a couple 's marriage and whether cohabiting and married couples can raise children equally well .
Instead , it is more common to see these legislators tweeting on a weekly – or even monthly – basis . Among lawmakers who posted at least one tweet during this six-month period , 86 % of those in the U.S. posted at least one tweet per week , but that share falls to just 27 % for those in New Zealand . In fact , nearly one-third of such legislators in New Zealand posted less than one tweet per month .
Landline phones do not show these differences in frequency of use by age – older and younger teens are just about as likely to talk every day . If anything , landline phone use shows a slight increase during the mid-teen years ( ages 14 - 16 ) and then drops off again as teens near the end of high school . Face to face conversations outside of school rise modestly with age , from 22 % of 12 year olds having them daily to 38 % of 17 year-olds reporting daily face-to-face interactions outside of school . Nevertheless , this increase by age pales in comparison to the growth in daily mobile phone conversations from age 12 - 17 among cell phone users .
For instance , both Muslims and Westerners are concerned about Islamic extremism . More than two-thirds in Russia , Germany , Britain , the U.S. and France are worried about Islamic extremists in their country . Fully 77 % of Israelis also hold this view . But extremism is considered a threat in predominantly Muslim nations as well . More than seven-in-ten Palestinian and Lebanese Muslims are worried about Islamic extremists in their countries , as are most Muslims in Egypt , Pakistan , and Turkey . For Muslims , the most common concern about extremism is that it is violent , although in both Egypt and the Palestinian territories the top fear is that extremism could divide the country .
By more than two-to-one , Germans ( 55 % to 25 % ) and Americans ( 53 % to 20 % ) say TTIP will be good for their countries . There is no partisan divide in support for TTIP between adherents of the major German political parties , but more Democrats ( 60 % ) than Republicans ( 44 % ) in the United States back the deal .
Median household wealth among Hispanics fell from $ 18,359 in 2005 to $ 6,325 in 2009 . The percentage drop—66 % —was the largest among all racial and ethnic groups , according to a new report by the Pew Research Center 's Social & Demographic Trends project . During the same period , median household wealth declined 53 % among black households and 16 % among white households .
One frequently heard critique of today 's economy , especially since the Great Recession , is that most newly created jobs do n't pay very well . There 's some truth in that : The BLS data indicate that nearly half of the jobs predicted to be created by 2024 are in occupations with median wages of less than $ 40,000 a year . Bear in mind , though , that such occupations already accounted for 59 % of all jobs in 2014 . In fact , the fastest growth is projected to come in higher-paying occupations : Those with median annual wages of $ 60,000 and higher are projected to grow at a combined rate of 9.3 % . Those occupations overwhelmingly require higher levels of preparation and above-average levels of social skills , analytical skills or both .
In Pew Research Center polls this year , 52 % of women identify with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic , compared with 43 % of men . That is in line with the gender gap in party identification dating back to 1990 . In 2008 , 56 % of women and 46 % of men identified as Democrats or leaned Democratic .
Two years ago , a 55 % majority of Republicans said they were bothered a lot by the feeling that some corporations did not pay their fair share of taxes . Today , 44 % of Republicans express this concern . Among Democrats , there has been virtually no change in the share saying they are bothered a lot by corporations not paying their fair share ( 73 % then , 75 % today ) . Similarly , today , a smaller share of Republicans is bothered a lot by the feeling that some wealthy people do not pay their fair share of taxes ( 49 % in 2015 , 40 % today ) . Again , there has been little change among Democrats in this view ( 71 % then , 76 % today ) .
Americans have uniformly negative views of North Korea and its nuclear ambitions – a subject likely to be high on the agenda when President Donald Trump meets in Florida this week with Chinese President Xi Jinping . Overall , 78 % of Americans have an unfavorable view of the communist nation ruled by Kim Jong Un , with 61 % holding a very unfavorable opinion . Negative attitudes toward North Korea are shared across demographic groups , though more college-educated Americans hold negative views ( 91 % ) than do Americans with a high school education or less ( 69 % ) . Unlike public opinion on other aspects of U.S. foreign policy , there are no significant partisan divides on attitudes toward North Korea .
Some 55 % of working Ph.D. scientists belonging to the American Association for the Advancement of Science ( AAAS ) who we surveyed in 2014 said this was generally a good time for their scientific specialty , while 44 % said it was a bad time . And while nearly half ( 47 % ) said it was a good or very good time to begin a career in their field , 53 % said it was a bad time to start out in their field .
Parents are divided on whether today 's teens face a set of issues completely different from the issues of their youth . When asked to compare the experiences of today 's teens to their own experiences when they were a teen , 48 % of parents say today 's teens have to deal with a completely different set of issues . A similar share of parents of teens ( 51 % ) believe that despite some differences , the issues young people deal with today are not that different from when they themselves were teenagers .
The new survey shows , however , that public confidence in the United Nations is a major victim of the conflict in Iraq . Positive ratings for the world body have tumbled in nearly every country for which benchmark measures are available . Majorities or pluralities in most countries believe that the war in Iraq showed the U.N. to be not so important any more . The idea that the U.N. is less relevant is much more prevalent now than it was just before the war , and is shared by people in countries that backed the war , the U.S. and Great Britain , as well as in nations that opposed it , notably France and Germany .
More than three and a half years into his administration , President Donald Trump 's approval ratings have remained remarkably stable . There also has been a wider gap between Republicans ' and Democrats ' views of Trump than for any other U.S. president in the modern era of polling . About four-in-ten Americans ( 38 % ) approve of Trump 's job performance , while 59 % disapprove , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Although Trump experienced a slight bump in approval ratings at the beginning of the coronavirus outbreak – 45 % of the public in March and 44 % of the public in April said they approved of the way Trump was handling his job – his approval ratings have settled back to where they were before the pandemic hit the United States . Over the course of his presidency to date , an average of 87 % of Republicans have approved of Trump 's handling of the job , compared with an average of just 6 % of Democrats . This 81-percentage-point gap is far larger than the partisan division in average ratings for Obama ( 67 points ) and Bush ( 58 points ) during their presidencies . ( These growing partisan divides are consistent with widening divides in views of members of the opposing party , and with deep partisan divisions on political values , many of which are far more pronounced than in past decades . ) The growing partisan gap in assessments of U.S. presidents has been driven primarily by more negative ratings among members of the party that 's out of the White House . The 6 % of Democrats who approve of Trump is lower than the 14 % of Republicans who approved of Obama and the 23 % of Democrats who approved of Bush during their respective administrations . Out-party ratings of the president were even higher in previous decades : For example , an average of 31 % of Democrats approved of Ronald Reagan 's job performance .
Seven decades after the end of World War II and a quarter-century after the end of the Cold War , roughly seven-in-ten Americans see Germany as a reliable ally , and about six-in-ten Germans trust the United States , according to a Pew Research Center survey . A majority of Germans believe it is more important for Germany to have strong ties with the United States than with Russia . Germans also give U.S. President Barack Obama high marks for his management of the U.S.-German relationship . And Germans and Americans are equally wary of international entanglements and want their countries to focus on domestic problems . But Germans and Americans do not see eye-to-eye on salient points in the history of the postwar alliance , nor about some of the key issues in its future . For Americans , the most important event in U.S.-German relations over the past 75 years remains World War II and the Holocaust . Germans are less unanimous in their views of historical importance , but to the extent that one event stands out it is the 1989 fall of the Berlin Wall . In the eyes of most Americans , the `` special relationship '' with Britain is still stronger than that with Germany . Americans want Germany to play a more active military role in the world , but Germans emphatically disagree . Americans think that neither the European Union nor the U.S. is being tough enough in dealing with Russia on the issue of Ukraine . A plurality of Germans believes the handling of Russia is about right . And , while half of Americans voice the view that a free trade agreement between the EU and the U.S. would be a good thing , only about four-in-ten Germans agree .
In 2015 , average hourly wages for black and Hispanic men were $ 15 and $ 14 , respectively , compared with $ 21 for white men . Only the hourly earnings of Asian men ( $ 24 ) outpaced those of white men . Among women across all races and ethnicities , hourly earnings lag behind those of white men and men in their own racial or ethnic group . But the hourly earnings of Asian and white women ( $ 18 and $ 17 , respectively ) are higher than those of black and Hispanic women ( $ 13 and $ 12 , respectively ) – and also higher than those of black and Hispanic men .
Public concern about the job situation , which surged earlier this year , has leveled off . Currently , 42 % cite the job situation as the economic issue they worry about most , which is largely unchanged from March ( 42 % ) and February ( 45 % ) . Last December , only 26 % viewed jobs as their top economic concern . Meanwhile , worries about rising prices – which dominated the public 's economic concerns last year during the rapid run-up in gas prices – are once again increasing . Currently , 29 % say rising prices are the issue that most worries them , up from 22 % in March . A year earlier , fully 49 % named rising prices as their biggest economic worry . As the stock market has become less volatile , concern over problems in financial markets has declined . Currently , 15 % cite problems in the markets as their top economic worry , down from 21 % in March and 31 % last October . In March , comparable shares cited rising prices ( 22 % ) and problems in the financial markets ( 21 % ) as their biggest economic worry ; now , nearly twice as many say they are most worried by rising prices ( 29 % vs. 15 % ) . Fewer than one-in-ten ( 8 % ) cite declining real estate values as the economic issue that they find most worrisome , a figure that has stayed fairly constant for more than a year .
These headline-making assaults have , however , been perpetrated in a country where public support for extremism has declined sharply in recent years . Surveys by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project have found progressively lower levels of acceptance of suicide bombing as well as waning confidence in Osama bin Laden .1 There is only modest support among Pakistanis for al Qaeda or the Taliban . And few agree with their widely noted tactic of preventing education for girls .
Republican dissatisfaction has nearly doubled since last fall , from 30 % then to 58 % today saying the government is not doing a good job . Since last year , the share of Democrats saying this has increased only modestly , from 20 % to 26 % . During the Obama era , Republicans consistently have given lower marks than Democrats to the government 's anti-terrorism efforts . However , the partisan gap was even greater ( and in the opposite direction ) late in George W. Bush 's tenure ; in 2007 , 62 % of Democrats rated the government 's job in the reducing terrorism as not good , compared with just 16 % of Republicans .
As of July 12 , Trump has successfully appointed 43 judges , including one Supreme Court justice ( Neil Gorsuch ) , 22 appeals court judges and 20 district judges . Dozens of other court nominees are awaiting votes in the Senate , including two more appeals court judges who could be confirmed this week . While a few of Trump 's predecessors going back to Jimmy Carter had also appointed a Supreme Court justice by July 12 of their second year in office , none had appointed close to as many appeals court members – the powerful judges who sit just below the Supreme Court level . ( Kavanaugh is currently a federal appeals court judge , just as eight of the nine current Supreme Court members were before they became justices . ) Obama and Bush had each appointed nine appeals court judges at this point in their presidencies , while Bill Clinton had appointed 11 . George H.W . Bush and Ronald Reagan came closest to matching Trump 's total with 15 and 14 confirmed appeals court judges , respectively . Carter had appointed 10 .
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security data analysis shows the number of unaccompanied minors apprehended at the border who originated from Mexico , Honduras , El Salvador , Guatemala and other countries from Oct. 1 , 2012 through May 31 , 2014 . Although the specific reasons for migration to the U.S. may vary , Central Americans of all ages are fleeing some of the highest murder rates in the world , but females face additional danger .
A new survey finds that seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) say there should be a way for people in the United States illegally to remain in this country if they meet certain requirements , while 27 % say they should not be allowed to stay legally . Most who favor providing illegal immigrants with some form of legal status –43 % of the public – say they should be allowed to apply for citizenship , but 24 % of the public says they should only be allowed to apply for legal residency .
Asia and the Pacific had the largest increase in government restrictions , while the Middle East and North Africa region continued to have the highest median level of restrictions . The median score among the Asia Pacific region 's 50 countries rose to 4.4 in 2018 from 3.8 a year earlier . In 2018 , roughly six-in-ten countries in the region ( 62 % ) experienced some level of government force related to religion , up from about half ( 52 % ) in 2017 . In Burma , also known as Myanmar , thousands of people from religious minorities continued to be displaced . And in Uzbekistan , at least 1,500 Muslims remained in prison on charges of extremism or membership in banned groups . Social hostilities fell slightly in 2018 but remained near the 2017 peak . The median level of religion-related hostilities by private individuals , organizations or groups in society fell to 2.0 from 2.1 on the 10-point Social Hostilities Index . While this index has doubled in the past decade , it has seen more year-to-year fluctuations compared with government restrictions . The decline in 2018 is partly due to fewer reports of incidents in which some religious groups ( usually of a majority faith in a country ) attempted to prevent other religious groups ( usually of minority faiths ) from expressing their beliefs . Globally , the number of countries with `` high '' or `` very high '' levels of social hostilities involving religion stood at 53 in 2018 , or 27 % of all countries studied .
Yet dissatisfaction with the campaign and the candidates has done nothing to dampen voter interest in the 2016 election . Fully 80 % of registered voters say they have given `` quite a lot '' of thought to the election , the highest share at this point in any campaign since 1992 . Four years ago , 67 % of voters said they had given a lot of thought to the election , and at this point in 2008 – the previous election in which both parties had contested nominations – 72 % did so . In part , this is a reflection of the widespread belief that a great deal is at stake in the upcoming election . In every campaign since 2004 , majorities of voters have said `` it really matters '' who wins presidential contests , but currently 74 % express this view , up 11 percentage points from the same point in the campaigns four and eight years ago .
The gap exists even though Muslims in the region have made considerable gains in formal schooling in recent generations . Between the oldest and youngest adults in this study ( those ages 55 to 74 and 25 to 34 in 2010 ) , the share of Muslims in sub-Saharan Africa with at least some formal schooling ( one year of primary schooling or more ) doubled , rising from 21 % to 43 % . But these gains have not been as large as those made by Christians over the same period . As a result , the Muslim-Christian gap has actually widened across generations .
Canadians are more concerned than their American counterparts on a number of key issues related to climate change . For example , in Pew Research Center 's spring 2015 survey of 40 nations , 84 % of Canadians supported an international agreement to limit their country 's greenhouse gas emissions , compared with 69 % of Americans . This agreement was subsequently adopted at the Paris COP21 conference , but whether the United States will enact such an accord remains in question . A majority ( 56 % ) of Canadians say climate change is harming people now , while only 41 % of Americans agree . On most of the questions presented to both Canadians and Americans on climate change , Canadians were more concerned and closer to the global 40-country median than Americans , who were generally less concerned than others around the world .
In the decade that brought the country into World War II , women typically lived with their parents until they married and only a small share attended college . Indeed , even in 1960 , only 5 % of 18- to 34-year-old women were college students . Today , women are five times more likely to be enrolled in college . According to 2014 figures , 27 % of young women were college students .
Take , for example , the question of whether the U.S. government should collect telecommunications data as part of its anti-terrorism efforts . Opposition to such practices is highest at both ends of the political spectrum : 69 % of Steadfast Conservatives , 61 % of Business Conservatives and 58 % of Solid Liberals say they disapprove of government data collection .
Residents in the three types of communities also differ on how important they think the internet is for getting local news . Urban residents are more digitally focused in their local news habits , placing greater emphasis on the internet for local news . About four-in-ten urban residents ( 37 % ) say the internet is their most important source of local news , compared with 32 % in suburban areas and 26 % of those in rural areas . They are also more likely than rural residents to often get news from websites and apps ( 29 % for urban vs. 23 % for rural , along with 27 % of suburban residents ) .
Concurrently , the center of political gravity in the European Parliament has shifted to the right . Historically , the three main groupings representing the center-left , center-right and centrist liberals held three-quarters or more of seats , but in the 2009 election their collective share slipped to 73 % , and in 2014 it fell further to 64 % . Parties classified as right-wing to far right now hold a fifth of European Parliament seats , more than double their share two decades ago . And after years of post-Cold War decline , parties categorized as left-wing to far left won 7 % of seats in 2014 , their biggest win in 15 years .
3 '' Negative voting '' is higher for Trump than it was for past GOP candidates . While most Republican voters say Trump does represent the party 's core principles , they are divided over whether they are mostly voting `` for '' him or `` against '' Clinton . In our most recent survey , 51 % of registered voters supporting Trump say they see their choice as more of a vote against Clinton than a vote for Trump . That is the highest share of `` negative voting '' among supporters of Republican candidates dating back to George W. Bush 's first presidential race in 2000 . Among Clinton supporters , 57 % view their choice as for Clinton , rather than against Trump . The share of Clinton 's backers who view their choice positively is less than the share of pro-Barack Obama voters who did so in 2008 ( 77 % ) or 2012 ( 73 % ) , but much higher than the level of positive support for John Kerry in 2004 ( 39 % ) .
Nearly a third ( 32 % ) cite the Penn State scandal as their most closely followed story . This story accounted for 17 % of coverage last week , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
With a median age of 36 , Buddhists are older than the world 's overall population , which has a median age of 30 , according to estimates as of 2015 . They also are older than people in other major religious groups , such as Muslims ( median of 24 ) , Hindus ( median of 27 ) and Christians ( median of 30 ) . Religiously unaffiliated adults have the same median age as Buddhists ( 36 ) .
Roughly a third ( 34 % ) of the public say they went online for news yesterday – on par with radio , and slightly higher than daily newspapers . And when cell phones , email , social networks and podcasts are added in , 44 % of Americans say they got news through one or more internet or mobile digital source yesterday . At the same time , the proportion of Americans who get news from traditional media platforms – television , radio and print – has been stable or edging downward in the last few years . There has been no overall decline in the percentage saying they watched news on television , and even with the continued erosion of print newspaper and radio audiences , three-quarters of Americans got news yesterday from one or more of these three traditional platforms .
Views of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad are negative across all of the Middle Eastern and North African nations surveyed . Only 7 % in Israel and 1 % in Jordan view Assad positively . Syrians living in Jordan have similarly negative views of the Syrian president ; only 3 % have a favorable view of Assad .
As Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu prepares to visit President Obama at the White House on Monday , Americans and Israelis continue to hold each other in high regard . A spring 2013 Pew Research Center survey found that an overwhelming majority of Israelis ( 83 % ) have a favorable opinion of the U.S . This represents an 11 percentage point increase since 2011 . At the same time , 57 % of Americans view Israel positively .
In contrast , positive ratings for the Chinese government 's rights record can be found in several predominantly Muslim countries . For instance , six-in-ten or more view China 's treatment of its people positively in Lebanon ( 68 % ) , Pakistan ( 65 % ) , and Indonesia ( 60 % ) . On balance , China also received largely positive ratings in the six sub-Saharan Africa nations polled , although many people in these countries do not offer an opinion on this question .
In addition , a growing share of Americans today are worried that government anti-terrorism programs are infringing on civil liberties . In the Pew Research survey , 44 % said the government 's policies have gone too far in restricting the civil liberties of average people , up from 27 % in January 2010 . By contrast , 39 % said in the latest survey that they were mainly concerned that government policies have n't gone far enough to protect the country , down from 58 % who said that in January 2010 .
Younger adults are more likely than older adults to say they have heard of people preferring gender-neutral pronouns and to know someone who goes by these pronouns . Roughly three-quarters of Americans ages 18 to 29 ( 73 % ) say they have heard a little or a lot about people preferring nonbinary pronouns , compared with about two-thirds of those 30 to 49 ( 65 % ) and smaller shares of those ages 50 to 64 ( 54 % ) and 65 and older ( 46 % ) . Meanwhile , about three-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 ( 32 % ) personally know someone who goes by these types of pronouns , compared with smaller shares of older adults .
Despite a slowly recovering economy , the proportion of Americans who identify themselves as middle class has dropped sharply in recent years . Today , about as many Americans identify themselves as lower or lower-middle class ( 40 % ) as say they are in the middle class ( 44 % ) , according to a recent Pew Research Center/USA TODAY survey . The nationally representative survey of 1,504 adults conducted Jan. 15 - 19 found that the share of Americans who identify with the middle class has never been lower , dropping to 44 % in the latest survey from 53 % in 2008 during the first months of the Great Recession . At the same time , the share of the public who says they are in the lower or lower-middle classes rose by 15 percentage points , from 25 % in 2008 to 40 % today . As a consequence of these shifts , the difference in the proportion of Americans who say they are middle class and those who say they are in the lower classes has fallen from 28 percentage points in 2008 ( 53 % vs. 25 % ) to a statistically insignificant 4 points today ( 44 % vs. 40 % ) .
The Japanese public is generally negative toward key institutions and leaders within the country , likely reflecting disappointment with quake and tsunami recovery efforts and possibly also frustration with the flow of accurate information about the situation at the Fukushima power plant . Just 12 % of Japanese say the national government is having a good influence on the way things are going in the country ; 86 % say it is having a bad influence . This is a significant shift from 2007 , when the public was fairly divided on the issue ( 50 % good influence vs. 44 % bad influence ) .
The nation 's Latino population has long been characterized by its rapid growth and by its wide dispersion to parts of the country that traditionally have had few Latinos . But a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data finds that the growth and dispersion of the U.S. Latino population has slowed since 2007 , when the Great Recession started , immigration from Latin America cooled and Latino fertility rates declined sharply .
The controversy surrounding the firing of U.S. Department of Agriculture official Shirley Sherrod attracted widespread attention from the news media last week and was the dominant story on cable news networks . The public , however , showed modest interest in the Sherrod affair and , as has been the case since early May , the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico was by far the public 's most closely followed news story . The latest News Interest Index survey , conducted July 22 - 25 among 1,004 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , finds that 51 % say the oil leak was the story they followed most closely last week , compared with just 8 % who cited news reports about the Sherrod controversy . News about the economy – at 13 % most closely – also drew more interest than the Sherrod story . A separate analysis by Pew Research 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) finds that reports on Sherrod 's firing accounted for 14 % of all coverage last week , but as much as 28 % of coverage on July 21 , after it became clear that the video posted by conservative blogger Andrew Breitbart took Sherrod 's comments about race out of context . The White House subsequently apologized to Sherrod , as did many news commentators .
Non-internet users as a group are disproportionately old and poor . The median age of non-internet users is 59 , and 25 % report having household incomes under $ 20,000 per year . It is not , however , simply a question of money or age . Non-internet users do not have very positive attitudes about information technology . Many report worries about information overload and few link information technology to greater control over their lives . Moreover , non-internet users are apt to see the online environment as a dangerous place – that is , a place with inappropriate or irrelevant content . Given that these non-users are people with worries about information technology and not a lot of extra disposable income , luring them online wo n't be an easy task .
Big cities in the U.S. tend toward the liberal side of the political spectrum , even when they 're within conservative states ( residents of Austin sometimes joke that their city is `` an island surrounded by Texas '' ) . But which cities are more liberal — or conservative — than their reputations ? In a paper due to appear in an upcoming issue of the American Political Science Review , researchers from MIT and UCLA pooled data from seven large-scale opinion surveys , conducted between 2000 and 2011 , to develop measures of public policy preference in 51 cities with populations of more than 250,000 . The most liberal cities were about what you would expect : San Francisco , Washington D.C. , Seattle , Oakland and Boston ; the most conservative city was Mesa , Ariz. , followed by Oklahoma City , Virginia Beach and Colorado Springs . ( The chart above , created by The Economist , is based on the researchers ' data . )
Americans with lower incomes are especially likely to express concern about broadband and cellphone bills . Roughly half of lower-income broadband users ( 52 % ) say they worry a lot or some about being able to pay for their high-speed internet connection over the coming months , compared with 26 % of those with incomes in the middle and just 9 % of those in the high-income tier . Among smartphone owners , 54 % of those who have lower incomes say they worry at least some about paying their cellphone bills , compared with 25 % of those who are middle income and just 9 % of upper-income users .
In ceremonies today led by Secretary of State John Kerry , the flag was raised at the U.S. Embassy in Havana for the first time since 1961 , signifying a re-establishment of diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba . Although this renewal has its critics , people across five Latin American nations surveyed in spring of this year approve of the neighboring countries restoring relations , and the American public also overwhelmingly supports this approach . Nearly three-quarters of Americans ( 73 % ) say they approve of the U.S. renewing ties with Cuba . A similar median of 77 % across five Latin American countries surveyed ( Argentina , Brazil , Chile , Mexico and Venezuela ) approve of this action . This includes 79 % of Chileans , 78 % of Argentines and 77 % of Venezuelans . Brazilians ( 67 % approve ) and Mexicans ( 54 % ) are actually more skeptical of the deal than Americans , whose support has grown 10 percentage points since earlier this year . Both Americans and Latin Americans also support the U.S. ending its trade embargo against Cuba . Roughly three-quarters in the U.S. ( 72 % ) and in Latin America ( median of 76 % ) favor ending the embargo . Only in Mexico ( 55 % support ) is there less support for such an action .
Today 's parents take a wide range of actions to monitor and police their teen 's online behavior . Nearly six-in-ten parents say they often or sometimes check which websites their teen visits or look through their child 's cellphone call logs or messages ( 58 % of parents say they do each of these things ) . A somewhat smaller share of parents ( 52 % ) say they at least sometimes use parental controls to restrict which sites their teen can access .
Among all Christian religious traditions in the U.S. , Mormons are among the most highly involved in their congregations ( 67 % ) , according to an analysis based on three measures of congregational involvement : membership in a congregation , frequency of attendance at worship services and frequency of attendance at small group religious activities . Jehovah 's Witnesses have comparable levels of highly involved members ( 64 % ) , while evangelical Protestants ( 43 % ) , members of historically black Protestant denominations ( 41 % ) and those in other Christian groups have lower average levels of congregational involvement . In addition , our Religious Landscape Study found that Mormons are among the groups most likely to believe the Bible is the word of God ( 91 % ) , pray daily ( 85 % ) , say religion is very important in their lives ( 84 % ) and read scripture regularly ( 77 % ) .
More moms are staying home : The share of mothers who do not work outside the home has risen over the past decade , reversing a long-term decline in stay-at-home mothers . ( In the U.S. today , 71 % of all mothers work outside the home . ) Two-thirds are `` traditional '' married stay-at-home mothers with working husbands , but a growing share is unmarried .
The survey finds that Americans ' trust in the federal government remains at a historic low : Just 17 % say they trust the government in Washington to do the right thing always or most of the time ; 71 % say they trust the government only some of the time and 10 % volunteer that they `` never '' trust the government . These attitudes have changed little over the last two administrations . In fact , it has been more than a decade , during George W. Bush 's second term , since as many as a third of Americans said they trusted the federal government at least most of the time . And with the exception of a brief period following the 9/11 terrorist attacks , it has been more than 40 years since public trust in government surpassed 50 % .
Indians have high opinions of the U.S. and President Obama . Later this month , U.S. President Barack Obama and Indian Prime Minister Modi will meet in New York to discuss , among other issues , climate change – a top concern for Indians . Meanwhile , 70 % of Indians hold a favorable view of the U.S. , and ratings of Obama , who visited India in January 2015 , are even higher , with nearly three-quarters of the public expressing confidence in him to do the right thing regarding world affairs .
Since March , the share of all registered voters who say it is more important for a presidential candidate to have `` new ideas and a different approach '' has surged – with virtually all of the increase coming among Republican and Republican-leaning voters . Today , by more than two-to-one ( 65 % to 29 % ) , Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters say it is more important that a candidate have new ideas than `` experience and a proven record . '' Just five months ago , GOP voters valued experience and a proven record over new ideas , 57 % to 36 % . Opinion among Democratic voters continues to be more evenly divided : 50 % say it is more important for a candidate to have experience and a proven record , while 42 % view new ideas and a different approach as more important . This is little changed from March ( 46 % experience , 49 % new ideas ) .
Despite spending more time with their kids than they did a generation ago , about a quarter of mothers ( and half of fathers ) say they do not spend enough time with their children . Even so , about three-quarters of moms give themselves high ratings on their parenting . Working mothers are particularly likely to give themselves a thumbs up .
New data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention provides more evidence that Black Americans have been hospitalized with COVID-19 at higher rates than other racial or ethnic groups . But while the CDC has pointed to some possible factors that may be contributing to this pattern – such as work and residential circumstances – the public is divided in its perceptions , particularly along party lines , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 4 - 10 . Most U.S. adults ( 63 % ) say a major reason for higher COVID-19 hospitalization rates among Black people is that they are more likely to live in densely populated areas . Smaller but still substantial shares point to Black people being more likely to have other health conditions that put them at risk ( 52 % ) , that they are less likely to have access to adequate health care ( 49 % ) and that they are more likely to work in industries that require contact with the public ( 45 % ) .
As Americans look ahead to the next 20 years , a large majority of the public ( 82 % ) expects scientific developments to make people 's lives better , while 11 % think new developments will make no difference and 6 % expect such developments will make people 's lives worse . Large majorities of white and Hispanic adults ( 84 % and 83 % , respectively ) and somewhat fewer black adults ( 74 % ) are optimistic that new scientific developments will improve lives .
The belief that the U.S. economic system is no more secure today than it was before the financial crisis is widely shared across demographic groups . There are partisan differences , however , with Democrats more likely than Republicans or independents to say that the system is more secure . Large majorities of Republicans ( 80 % ) and independents ( 68 % ) say the economic system is not more secure than prior to the financial crisis . Democrats are divided : 51 % say the system is more secure today while 45 % say it is not .
The Federal Reserve Act gives the nation 's central bank two main tasks : maximize employment and maintain long-term price stability . While both are worthy goals , economists have known for a while that achieving both low inflation and maximum employment simultaneously is , at best , difficult ( the relationship is a lot more complicated than the simple tradeoff often cited in the media ) . The complex interplay between the Fed 's dual mandates is well captured in the spaghetti-bowl swirls of this New York Times chart , which covers more than eight decades of U.S. economic history . The twisting line traces average annual unemployment and core inflation ( the Fed 's preferred measure , which excludes volatile food and energy categories ) for each year since the onset of the Great Depression .
In the U.S. , Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are significantly more likely to view climate change as a major threat than Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . While 85 % of Democrats say global warming poses a significant threat to the U.S. , only 31 % of Republicans say the same . The share of Americans who say climate change is a major threat to the U.S. has increased from 2012 , but this rise in concern has come mostly from Democrats ( +26 percentage points since 2012 ) . The share of Republicans saying this has increased just 8 points over the same period . This aligns with previous Pew Research Center surveys on Americans ' views of climate change .
The increased diversity of the electorate was also driven by population growth , especially among Latinos . Between 2004 and 2008 , the number of Latino eligible voters rose from 16.1 million in 2004 to 19.5 million in 2008 , or 21.4 % . In comparison , among the general population , the total number of eligible voters increased by just 4.6 % . In 2008 , Latino eligible voters accounted for 9.5 % of all eligible voters , up from 8.2 % in 2004 . Similarly , the share of eligible voters who were black increased from 11.6 % in 2004 to 11.8 % in 2008 . The share of eligible voters who were Asian also increased , from 3.3 % in 2004 to 3.4 % in 2008 . In contrast , the share of eligible voters who were white fell from 75.2 % in 2004 to 73.4 % in 2008 . With population growth and increased voter participation among blacks , Latinos and Asians , members of all three groups cast more votes in 2008 than in 2004 . Two million more blacks and 2 million more Latinos reported voting in 2008 than said the same in 2004 . Among Asians , 338,000 more votes were reported cast in 2008 than in 2004 . The number of white voters in 2008 was also up , but only slightly—increasing from 99.6 million in 2004 to 100 million in 2008 .
Parents are more likely to be Facebook friends with their parents than non-parents , 53 % vs. 40 % . They also are more likely to be friends with their neighbors on the network , 41 % vs. 34 % of non-parents .
When it comes to issues , 41 % of likely Iowa Democratic voters view Clinton as the candidate best able to improve the health care system , roughly double the number who cite Obama ( 21 % ) or Edwards ( 20 % ) . Iowa voters are most divided when it comes to who can do the best to improve job opportunities for Americans — 28 % cite Clinton , 26 % Obama , and 19 % Edwards . Clinton 's weakest issue is immigration . Just 17 % of Iowa Democrats name her as the candidate best able to deal with immigration . Both Obama ( 23 % ) and Bill Richardson ( 19 % ) are cited more often .
Uncertainty about what constitutes `` offensive '' speech . As in the past , a majority of Americans ( 60 % ) say `` too many people are easily offended over the language that others use . '' Yet there is uncertainty about what constitutes offensive speech : About half ( 51 % ) say it is easy to know what others might find offensive , while nearly as many ( 48 % ) say it is hard to know . In addition , majorities say that people in this country do not generally agree about the types of language considered to be sexist ( 65 % ) and racist ( 61 % ) .
With the holiday shopping season underway , about twice as many are hearing good news about retail sales ( 28 % ) as bad news ( 13 % ) ; about half ( 48 % ) are hearing mixed news . This sentiment is roughly in line with opinions measured in December of each of the previous two years . Despite the Dow Jones Industrial Average trading near record highs , attitudes are mixed when it comes to recent news about the stock market . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they are hearing mostly good news about the stock market compared with 16 % who are hearing mostly bad news ; 45 % say news has been mixed and 19 % say they do n't know .
Although this survey defines online harassment using six specific behaviors , the findings also indicate that what people actually consider to be `` online harassment '' is highly contextual and varies from person to person . Among the 41 % of U.S. adults who have experienced one or more of the six behaviors that this survey uses to define online harassment , 36 % feel their most recent experience does indeed qualify as `` online harassment . '' At the same time , 37 % say they do not think of their experience as online harassment , and another 27 % are unsure if they were victims of online harassment or not . Strikingly , 28 % of those whose most recent encounter involved severe types of abusive behavior – such as stalking , sexual harassment , sustained harassment or physical threats – do not think of their own experience as constituting `` online harassment . '' Meanwhile , 32 % of those who have only encountered `` mild '' behaviors such as name-calling or embarrassment do consider their most recent experience to be online harassment . Beyond their own personal experiences , a substantial majority of Americans ( 66 % ) say they have witnessed some type of harassing behavior directed toward others online , with 39 % indicating they have seen others targeted with severe behaviors such as stalking , physical threats , sustained harassment or sexual harassment . As was true of the harassment Americans experience personally , younger adults are especially likely to witness harassing behavior toward others online . Fully 86 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say they have witnessed at least one of these six behaviors , and 62 % have seen others targeted for severe forms of abuse . Exposure to these behaviors can have pronounced impacts on those witnessing them . In some cases , this involves people taking basic precautions to protect themselves : 28 % of Americans say that observing the harassment of others has influenced them to set up or adjust their own privacy settings . But in other cases , widespread abusive behavior can have a more pronounced chilling effect : 27 % of U.S. adults say they have refrained from posting something online after witnessing the harassment of others , and 13 % of the population has elected to stop using an online service due to the harassment of others they observe . Additionally , 8 % of all adults ( and 12 % of 18- to 29-year-olds ) say they have been very anxious after witnessing harassment of others online .
Americans were also asked about their expectations for space tourism in the next 50 years . The public is split over whether this will happen , with half saying that people will routinely travel in space as tourists by 2068 and half saying this will not happen . Americans are more skeptical about the possibility of colonies on other planets – an endeavor championed by space entrepreneurs Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos . About one-third of Americans ( 32 % ) say people will build colonies on other planets that can be lived in for long periods by 2068 .
Partisanship and ideology remain some of the strongest factors underlying attitudes about whether Earth is warming , our survey finds . Today , roughly nine-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 92 % ) say that there is solid evidence Earth 's average temperature is rising , and 76 % attribute this rise mostly to human activity . Very few liberal Democrats ( 5 % ) say there is not solid evidence of warming . A clear 83 % majority of conservative and moderate Democrats also say Earth is warming , but just 55 % say this is the result of human activity . By contrast , just 38 % of conservative Republicans say that there is solid evidence of global warming . Reflecting a divide within the GOP , conservative Republicans stand out as the only ideological group in which a majority ( 56 % ) says that there is not solid evidence of a rise in the earth 's temperature ( a 61 % majority of moderate and liberal Republicans say Earth is warming ) .
Democrats and Republicans remain deeply divided about how the U.S. Supreme Court should interpret the Constitution , according to a new analysis by the Pew Research Center . And there are many differences across demographic groups – especially when it comes to religious affiliation . About half of the public ( 49 % ) say the decisions of the Supreme Court should be based on its understanding of what the Constitution `` means in current times , '' while roughly as many ( 46 % ) say decisions should be based on what the Constitution `` meant as it was originally written . '' But Republicans—by more than two-to-one ( 69 % to 29 % ) —say the justices should base their rulings on the Constitution 's original meaning rather than on what it means in current times . Democratic opinion goes the other way : 70 % say the court should base its rulings on an understanding of the Constitution 's meaning in current times ( 26 % say rulings should be based on the document 's original meaning ) . And these opposing views on constitutional interpretation are even starker along ideological lines . Fully 92 % of those who are consistently conservative on a 10-question scale of political values , along with 72 % of those who are mostly conservative on this scale , say interpretation should be based on original intent . By contrast , 83 % of those with consistently liberal political values , and 70 % of those who are mostly liberal , say the justices ' rulings should be based on the Constitution 's meaning in current times ( the items used in the 10-item scale can be found here in Pew Research 's report on Political Polarization in the American Public ) .
Republicans who turn to Trump for coronavirus news are also more likely than other Republicans to say the pandemic has been overblown , that Trump is getting the facts about the outbreak right and that public health organizations are not getting the facts right , according to the survey , conducted Aug. 31-Sept. 7 as part of the Center 's American News Pathways project . The poll was fielded before Trump tested positive for the virus and was hospitalized . Respondents to the survey had earlier identified which of 10 types of sources they rely on most for COVID-19 news : Trump and his task force ; international news outlets ; national news outlets ; local news outlets ; state and local elected officials ; public health organizations ; Joe Biden and his campaign ; friends and family ; online forums ; or community newsletters or Listservs . Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents , large differences emerge between those who rely mainly on Trump and those who rely mostly on other sources . But among Democrats and Democratic leaners , no one group of news consumers stands out in the same way .
Assessments of the greatest dangers to the world have shifted in recent years . The gap between rich and poor countries appeared more menacing in 2007 than in 2002 , as did pollution and other environmental problems . In 2002 , AIDS was selected by 17 countries , while the gap between rich and poor was the choice of five countries and pollution of only four . In 2007 , in contrast , the five had become closely bunched . The growing gap between rich and poor was rated the greatest danger ( or tied for greatest ) in 12 countries . AIDS led the list ( or tied ) in 16 countries , religious and ethnic hatred in 12 , and the spread of nuclear weapons in nine . Pollution was chosen as the greatest menace or tied for that position in 19 countries while substantial majorities in 25 of 37 countries deemed global warming a `` very serious '' problem .
Newsroom employment in the U.S. dropped by 23 % between 2008 and 2019 . In 2008 , there were about 114,000 newsroom employees – reporters , editors , photographers and videographers – in five industries that produce news : newspaper , radio , broadcast television , cable and `` other information services '' ( the best match for digital-native news publishers ) . By 2019 , that number had declined to about 88,000 , a loss of about 27,000 jobs , according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics . The bulk of the decline in total newsroom employment occurred in the first half of this period . Between 2008 and 2014 , the number of newsroom employees dropped to 90,000 , a loss of about 24,000 jobs . After 2014 , the number of newsroom employees stabilized , averaging about 88,000 workers through 2019 , with little to no change over the five-year period .
They also respond in largely similar ways when asked which specific elements of the story constitute harassment . Very few Americans think that John 's initial social media argument constitutes online harassment , but sizable majorities agree that John experiences harassment when he receives vulgar messages with racially insulting language ( 82 % ) , when his picture is edited to include racially insensitive images ( 80 % ) , and when he receives personal threats ( 82 % ) . And as with the case of the scenario involving sexual content , Americans have a somewhat different threshold for behavior that constitutes online harassment as opposed to behavior that deserves a response by the social media platform hosting that behavior . For instance , 80 % of Americans think it constitutes online harassment when people begin posting pictures of John that include racially insensitive imagery , but 57 % think that the social media service should have stepped in to address that behavior .
Sub-Saharan Africa has experienced dramatic gains in internet use in recent years . With this rapid growth in connectivity have come a host of potential problems , including fake news , political targeting and manipulation and financial scams , among others . Yet according to a new Pew Research Center analysis , most sub-Saharan Africans feel positively about the role the internet plays in their country . Large majorities say the increasing use of the internet has had a good influence on education in their country , and half or more say the same about the economy , personal relationships and politics . Only when it comes to the issue of morality are sub-Saharan Africans somewhat more divided about the role the internet is playing . Across six major nations surveyed in the region , a median of 45 % say the internet has had a positive impact on morality , while 39 % say it is has been negative . These views vary substantially by country . For example , a majority of Nigerians ( 57 % ) believe the internet is having a good influence on morality , while more than half of Senegalese ( 54 % ) say the opposite .
In a year where spending on political ad spending is poised to break $ 1 billion , with nearly half of that being spent on negative ads , more than a third of likely voters ( 36 % ) say that negativity toward the opposing party is driving their vote on Election Day . This number is about the same among supporters of Republican and Democratic candidates this November . About half of voters ( 48 % ) view their choice as a vote in favor of their own party . Those voters who hold ideologically mixed viewpoints are less likely than the average to see their vote in partisan terms ( 26 % say the parties are not a factor ) . A 46 % plurality say that voting for their party is the driving factor in their vote , while 27 % say they are voting against the other party .
Americans are evenly divided ( 49 % to 48 % ) over whether wedding-related businesses , such as caterers and florists , should be required to serve same-sex couples who want to marry , even if the owner of these establishments objects to homosexuality for religious reasons . But views on this vary considerably based on frequency of religious service attendance . Among those who attend church weekly or more , support for requiring businesses to serve same-sex couples drops to 31 % , while among those who do not attend regularly , it rises to 56 % .
Similarly , there has been a sharp decline through the period in the number of people who agree with the statement that `` AIDS might be God 's punishment for immoral sexual behavior . '' Just 23 % now agree with the statement ; 72 % disagree . When this question was first asked in 1987 , public opinion was divided on the question , with 43 % agreeing and 47 % disagreeing .
Democrats feel more negatively about talking politics with people who have a different opinion of the president than do Republicans . A large majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents – nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) – say they find it to be stressful and frustrating to talk to people with different opinions of Trump . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , fewer ( 52 % ) say they find this to be stressful and frustrating . White Democrats and Democratic leaners are more likely than black and Hispanic Democrats to say it is stressful and frustrating to talk to people with different opinions of Trump . About three quarters of white Democrats ( 74 % ) say it is frustrating , compared with 56 % of black Democrats and 61 % of Hispanic Democrats .
The analysis also shows that some groups that once clearly preferred keeping abortion legal are now divided over whether it should be legal or not . For instance , Pew Research Center surveys from 2007/2008 found that men , whites , those age 30 - 49 , those with some college education , political independents , observant white mainline Protestants , Catholics and Midwesterners all clearly favored keeping abortion legal in most or all cases . Now , each of these groups is closely divided on the issue . The latest ( August 2009 ) Pew Research Center survey also finds that four-in-ten Americans ( 41 % ) now favor making it more difficult for a woman to get an abortion , up six points from 2007 ( 35 % ) and the highest level of support in Pew Research Center surveys for increased restrictions since 1987 . However , those who favor making it more difficult to obtain an abortion are still outnumbered by those who oppose making it more difficult ( 50 % vs. 41 % ) .
Before Pope Francis ' encyclical on the environment was published in June , U.S. Catholics ' views of climate change mirrored those of Americans overall – including major partisan divisions . While six-in-ten Catholic Democrats say global warming is caused by humans and that it is a very serious problem , only about a quarter of Catholic Republicans feel the same way .
Few Republican and Democratic registered voters say a candidates ' electability is more important than shared issue positions in deciding who to support in next year 's primary elections and caucuses . About two thirds of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 67 % ) and a similar share of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 65 % ) say it is more important that a primary candidate share their positions on the issues than be able to beat the other party 's nominee . This is similar to opinion in the fall of 2007 , when most potential voters in both parties had a similar desire to support the candidate who shared their issue positions in the 2008 primaries .
About six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 61 % ) said in a 2019 survey that abortion should be legal in all or most cases , compared with 38 % who said it should be illegal all or most of the time . On both sides of the issue , Americans are more likely than not to leave room for exceptions , with more saying abortion should be legal or illegal most of the time , rather than always . Public support for legal abortion remains as high as it has been in two decades of polling , and there is virtually no difference between the views of men and women . When it comes to the Supreme Court 's 1973 landmark abortion ruling , seven-in-ten Americans ( 70 % ) in the 2019 survey said Roe v. Wade should not be completely overturned . Again , Democrats are far more likely than Republicans to hold this view ; Republicans are roughly evenly divided , with 50 % saying they do not want to see Roe v. Wade completely overturned and 48 % saying they would like the decision tossed out . Overall , similar majorities of women ( 70 % ) and men ( 69 % ) do not want Roe v. Wade overturned . The vast majority of Americans expect abortion to remain at least mostly legal in the U.S. A survey conducted in December 2018 asked Americans what they think the status of abortion laws in the country will be in 2050 ; about three-quarters said it will either be legal with no restrictions ( 22 % ) or legal with some restrictions ( 55 % ) . Far fewer said it will be illegal except in certain cases ( 16 % ) or illegal with no exceptions ( 5 % ) .
Obama Draws More Confidence Than GOP Leaders on Economy . Overall , about half of Americans ( 49 % ) say they have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in Obama to ‘ do the right thing ' in dealing with the economy , while 50 % have not too much confidence or no confidence at all . That compares with 43 % who have at least a fair amount of confidence in Democratic congressional leaders , and 37 % who express confidence in GOP leaders on the economy .
The shootings at Virginia Tech University overshadowed all other news stories last week – both in terms of coverage and public interest . Fully 45 % of Americans paid very close attention to the tragedy and 56 % said it was the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . However , interest in the Virginia Tech shootings was considerably lower than interest in the Columbine High School shootings which occurred almost exactly eight years earlier . More than two-thirds of Americans ( 68 % ) paid very close attention to the Columbine incident . Interest in the Virginia Tech shootings was on a par with school shootings that took place in the fall of 2006 ( including the shooting at an Amish school house in Pennsylvania ) , as well as the 1998 shootings at a middle school in Jonesboro , Arkansas and a high school in Springfield Oregon . In a busy news week , the public 's focus was primarily on the events in Blacksburg , Virginia . While interest in the situation in Iraq was substantial , the war did not dominate the public 's attention this past week as it has throughout most of the year . Only 13 % said they followed the events in Iraq more closely than any other news story . Neither Attorney General Alberto Gonzales 's testimony before Congress concerning the firing of eight U.S. attorneys nor the Supreme Court 's abortion ruling put a dent in the Virginia Tech audience . Only 4 % of the public named either of these stories as the one they followed most closely last week . The Virginia Tech shootings attracted more public interest and received more news coverage than any other story this year . Fully 51 % of all news coverage for the week was devoted to the Virginia Tech shootings and its aftermath . Cable news led the way devoting 76 % of its coverage to the story . More than 60 % of network television news focused on this story , as did half of all radio news . The public relied mainly on television for news about the shootings : 36 % say their main source of information about the story was cable news and another 32 % say they relied primarily on network TV news . The Internet was the main source of news on the shootings for 11 % of the public , while 9 % relied mainly on newspapers and another 9 % relied on radio .
According to 2012 census data , 31 % of all adults ages 25 and older have completed at least a bachelor 's degree , up from 30 % in 2011 . In 1971 only 12 % of adults ages 25 and older had completed at least a four-year college degree . For 2012 , nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) adults ages 25 and older had finished at least some college education . This matched the level attained in 2011 . In 1971 only 22 % of adults had finished at least some college . A high school education is becoming increasingly universal . In 2012 , 88 % of adults ages 25 and older had at least completed high school , matching the 2011 level and far surpassing the 57 % of adults who had at least finished high school in 1971 .
When it comes to accessing the internet on a mobile device such as a laptop or cell phone , young non-students ( 79 % of whom are wireless users ) are a bit less likely to go online wirelessly than either undergraduate or graduate students , but notably more likely than the overall adult population to do so . These differences in wireless usage between students and non-students are largely driven by differences in laptop computer ownership .
And Americans have mixed preferences on how to best shape economic and trade policies with China . Around half say it is more important to build a stronger relationship with China , while 46 % place more value on getting tougher with China . In the past year , the share endorsing a tougher stance with China on economic and trade policy has grown by 11 percentage points . Republicans and Democrats have both shifted their views over the past year in favor of getting tougher on China on economics and trade . Today , roughly two-thirds of Republicans support this position , 12 points higher than in 2019 . Democrats , for their part , are 14 points more likely this year to favor getting tough on China , though only a third pick this option over building relations .
Meanwhile , roughly 80 % of both Clinton and Obama supporters say the Democratic field is excellent or good . These ratings are most positive among liberal Democrats ; fully 86 % of liberal Democratic voters rate the field positively , with 39 % saying the candidates are `` excellent . '' Enthusiasm among conservative Democrats is more muted ( 72 % positive , 17 % `` excellent '' ) , but still higher than among any Republican group .
Univision 's total revenue remained steady at slightly less than $ 3 billion in 2018 . ( Telemundo 's revenue is not available for analysis , as its parent company , Comcast , does not provide network-specific revenue . )
Significantly , AIDS and infectious diseases rate higher than ethnic hatred or nuclear weapons among the biggest problems facing the world . The spread of these diseases were a top global concern in 17 of the 44 nations surveyed . Disease outranked other global problems in nine of the ten African nations surveyed , five of eight Latin American countries , as well as in Egypt and Vietnam .
Perhaps not surprisingly , workers at larger private sector employers are more likely to have paid family leave available . According to the NCS data , 23 % of workers at employers with 500 or more employees had access to the benefit ( up from 17 % in 2010 ) , while only 9 % of workers at employers with fewer than 100 employees do .
Polls this year have found that more Americans favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally than did so just last year . In two polls conducted over the past few months , based on interviews with more than 6,000 adults , 42 % favor same-sex marriage while 48 % are opposed . In polls conducted in 2009 , 37 % favored allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally and 54 % were opposed . For the first time in 15 years of Pew Research Center polling , fewer than half oppose same-sex marriage .
This chart shows estimates of the unauthorized migrant population as of March 2004 subdivided by when the migrants arrived in the United States . About 30 % of the unauthorized population in 2004 or 3.1 million persons arrived in the 4+ years since 2000 . In the 5 years before that , 3.6 million arrived . Thus , about two-thirds of unauthorized migrants have been in the country less than 10 years .
Three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Americans say the government is doing very ( 27 % ) or fairly ( 49 % ) well in reducing the threat of terrorism , and for most of the past ten years , at least two-thirds of the American public , including majorities across party lines , have offered this generally positive assessment . While 2007 was an extreme , there has been a partisan divide in assessments of government performance on terrorism from the very beginning . The direction of this gap switched when Barack Obama took office . From 2001 through 2008 Democrats offered decidedly more critical views of government performance on terrorism . But by October 2010 , Democrats expressed more positive views of the government 's anti-terrorism efforts than did Republicans .
Four-in-ten Republicans give Michelle Obama a zero . Republicans feel very negatively toward Barack Obama , but a majority also gives `` very cold '' thermometer ratings to Michelle Obama . Fully 81 % of Republicans feel very coldly toward Barack Obama , including 59 % who give him a zero on the 0 - 100 scale . Nearly six-in-ten Republicans ( 59 % ) give very cold ratings to Michelle Obama ; 40 % of Republicans give her a zero .
A majority of Americans believe the news media do not understand people like them , and this feeling is especially common among Republicans , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis . Overall , 58 % of U.S. adults feel the news media do not understand people like them , while 40 % feel they are understood , as reported in a recent Pew Research Center study . Republicans , however , are nearly three times as likely to feel that news organizations do n't understand them ( 73 % ) as they are to say they feel understood ( 25 % ) . By comparison , most Democrats ( 58 % ) say they feel understood by the news media , while four-in-ten say they do not . Not only are Republicans far more likely to feel misunderstood by the news media , they feel this way regardless of their media habits and demographic characteristics , according to the analysis of data collected Feb. 22 to March 4 , 2018 , among 5,035 U.S. adults .
In 2014 , nearly 600,000 asylum applications were filed in the EU , Norway and Switzerland , a 47 % increase over the more than 400,000 applications filed in 2013 . In 2015 , the number of asylum applications grew again , this time more than doubling 2014 's record to reach about 1.3 million ( a 122 % increase ) . The overall increase from 2013 to 2014 and again between 2014 and 2015 was reflected in the trajectory of new asylum seekers arriving from each of the three leading origin countries : Syria , Afghanistan and Iraq .
In recent years , the share of refugees entering the U.S. who are affiliated with religions other than Christianity and Islam has declined . But from 2009 to 2012 , between about a quarter and a third of refugees entering each year were adherents of other religions , including several thousand Hindus ( mostly from Bhutan ) and Buddhists ( mostly from Burma and Bhutan ) . Refugees with no religious affiliation were 5 % of all refugees admitted to the U.S. in fiscal 2002 . Since then , the share of refugees with no religious affiliation has decreased , amounting to less than 1 % of refugees entering the U.S. during fiscal 2017 . Even with the recent rise in the number of Muslim refugees , far more Christian than Muslim refugees have been admitted into the U.S. since fiscal 2002 . Nearly 425,000 Christian refugees entered the U.S. over that period , accounting for 46 % of all refugee arrivals . At the same time , about a third ( 33 % ) of all refugees admitted to the U.S. between 2002 and 2017 , or slightly more than 302,000 , were Muslim .
Americans like their turkey , but their appetite has limits . After rising rapidly in the 1980s , per-capita turkey consumption leveled off at nearly 18 pounds per year , but more recently has been drifting lower . Last year , according to Agriculture Department data , Americans ate an average of 16.03 pounds of turkey . At this year 's projected consumption level ( 5.06 billion pounds ) , per-capita consumption likely will be about the same or a bit lower than 2012 .
The U.S. Hispanic population has been a key driver of the country 's population growth since at least 2000 . But the group 's growth has slowed in recent years , and that trend continued in 2014 , as evidenced by new figures released early today by the U.S. Census Bureau . The Hispanic population reached a new high of 55.4 million in 2014 ( or 17.4 % of the total U.S. population ) , an increase of 1.2 million ( 2.1 % ) from the year before . However , that 2.1 % rate continues a trend of slower growth that began in 2010 .
The new survey finds that 41 % of the public says the United States plays a less important and powerful role as a world leader today than it did 10 years ago – the highest percentage ever in a Pew Research survey . And while the foreign policy opinion leaders differ with the public about many issues – including President Obama 's foreign policy , the war in Afghanistan and China – a growing proportion of Council on Foreign Relations members agree that the United States is a less important world leader . Fully 44 % of the CFR members say the U.S. is a less important global leader , up from 25 % in early September 2001 , just before the 9/11 attacks .
Since late March to early May , the share of Republicans who view the outbreak as a major threat to the nation 's health dropped 9 points , from 52 % to 43 % , while views on this issue among Democrats increased slightly from 78 % to 82 % . Democrats are now nearly 40 percentage points more likely than Republicans to consider the coronavirus a major threat to the health of the population .
Specifically , a majority of Americans ( 58 % ) believe gene editing will very likely lead to increased inequality because it will only be available to the wealthy . Some 54 % of Americans anticipate a slippery slope , saying it 's very likely that `` even if gene editing is used appropriately in some cases , others will use these techniques in ways that are morally unacceptable . '' And , 46 % expect it is very likely that gene editing techniques will be used before we fully understand how they affect people 's health .
More broadly , 64 % of veterans say the government has given them about as much help as it should have . Three-in-ten say the government has given them too little help . Post-9/11 veterans are more likely than those from previous eras to say the government has given them less help than it should have ( 43 % vs. 27 % ) .
Overall , about half of Democrats and Democratic leaners say their side in politics loses more than it wins , and this sentiment is especially widespread among Democrats with lower levels of education . A majority of Democrats with no more than a high school education ( 59 % ) , as well as those with some college experience ( 54 % ) , say their side loses more than it prevails . Among the only groups who feel like they 're winning are well-educated Democrats . Those with at least a college degree are more likely to say they feel like their side is winning ( 51 % ) than say it 's losing ( 41 % ) .
Socioeconomic status also affects the congregational characteristics that church shoppers value most . Location is particularly important to more affluent , well-educated adults . Roughly three-quarters of church shoppers who either are college educated or who have household incomes of $ 75,000 or more ( 77 % and 75 % , respectively ) say location played an important role in their choice of a new congregation . By comparison , about two-thirds of church shoppers either with a high school degree or less or a household income of less than $ 30,000 ( 64 % and 67 % , respectively ) say location is important . Church shoppers in the lowest income bracket are the most likely to choose a congregation that offers opportunities to volunteer in the local community , or to choose a congregation because their friends or family worship there .
Meanwhile , the survey finds that 28 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters say it is a bad thing that some very wealthy Democratic candidates are personally financing their presidential campaigns . But these views vary widely among supporters of different Democratic candidates , with supporters of Michael Bloomberg more positive than other Democrats about very wealthy candidates funding their own campaigns .
Anti-incumbent sentiment among voters has been growing steadily over the last decade and , this year , it matches or exceeds the last several midterms . About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of registered voters said last month that they do n't want to see most House members re-elected and about a third ( 35 % ) do n't want to see their own representative returned to office . In the 2006 and 2010 midterms , about half of voters said they wanted to see most members of Congress defeated .
Currently 36 % approve of the job performance of Democratic leaders , while just 26 % approve of Republican leaders . Both ratings are slightly higher than they were last spring .
The survey finds sizable gaps in public attentiveness to major issues and events . In this regard , the extraordinarily high level of attentiveness to bird flu disease is significant . More than 90 % of the publics in 14 of 15 countries polled say they have heard of the disease ; the only exception is Pakistan , where 82 % say they are aware of the disease . But attentiveness to other widely covered issues and events varies widely . There is nearly universal awareness of global warming in major industrialized countries ; in addition , 80 % of Russians and 78 % of Chinese say they have heard of global warming . Yet global warming has drawn scant attention in Muslim countries , with the exception of Turkey ( 75 % ) . And in India , just 57 % say they have heard of global warming . Among predominantly Muslim countries , large majorities in Egypt ( 80 % ) , Jordan ( 79 % ) , and Turkey ( 68 % ) say they have heard of the reports of prison abuse . But in Indonesia , Pakistan , and among Muslims in Nigeria , most people have not heard of this issue . Moreover , just 38 % of Chinese and 23 % of Indians say they are aware of the prison abuse story .
In 2008 , Pakistani views about the Taliban were essentially divided : 27 % gave the extremist organization a positive rating , 33 % gave it a negative one , and 40 % offered no opinion . A year later , seven-in-ten Pakistanis expressed an unfavorable view , and ratings for the Taliban have remained decidedly negative ever since .
Because no single question can possibly paint a full picture of opinion on an issue , the Pew Research Center covers public policy from multiple angles . On gun policy , we have conducted polls exploring attitudes about a number of proposals , including stricter background checks on gun purchases , preventing people with mental illness from purchasing guns and establishing a federal database to track gun sales . Our January 2013 survey found that many of these proposals drew extensive public support ( see `` In Gun Control Debate , Several Options Draw Majority Support , '' Jan. 14 , 2013 ) . Other recent polls have looked at the differing perspectives of gun owners and non-gun owners and the potential impact of stricter gun laws in a number of areas , including whether such laws would reduce the number of deaths in mass shootings . Even after the Senate defeated a background checks bill in 2013 , we found that 81 % favored making private gun sales and sales at gun shows subject to background checks ( see `` Broad Support for Renewed Background Checks Bill , Skepticism About Its Chances , '' May 23 , 2013 ) .
A plurality of Americans ( 45 % ) say the country has n't gone far enough in giving black people equal rights with whites , while 39 % say it 's been about right and 15 % say we 've gone too far . Black adults are by far the most likely to say the country has n't gone far enough – 78 % say this , compared with 37 % of whites and 48 % of Hispanics . Among whites , there is a vast party divide on this issue . While 64 % of white Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the country has n't gone far enough in giving blacks equal rights with whites , only 15 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say the same . About a third of white Republicans ( 31 % ) say the country has gone too far , compared with 5 % of white Democrats .
Majorities in all Western European countries surveyed in 2008 except Spain said they were very or fairly concerned that their country had become too dependent on Russia for its energy resources : Roughly six-in-ten or more among British ( 67 % ) , German ( 62 % ) and French ( 58 % ) publics expressed concern ; the Spanish public was evenly split on this issue ( 46 % concerned , 47 % not concerned ) . Concern grew a bit between 2007 and 2008 in several Western European publics ; slightly more were worried in 2008 in Germany ( 62 % ) , France ( 58 % ) , and Spain ( 46 % ) than in 2007 ( Germany 58 % , France 53 % , Spain 38 % ) . British views have remained unchanged . Similarly , in 2007 majorities in all Eastern European countries surveyed except Bulgaria said they were concerned about their country 's dependence on Russian energy resources : Three-quarters of Poles , roughly six-in-ten Ukrainians ( 63 % ) and Czechs ( 57 % ) and half of Slovaks ( 53 % ) expressed concern . Of the Eastern Europeans surveyed , Bulgarians were the least concerned about their dependence on Russian gas resources . Only a little over one-third ( 37 % ) in Bulgaria expressed concern , while a full half ( 53 % ) said they were not too/at all worried . Fewer Poles were worried in 2008 ( 66 % ) than in 2007 ( 75 % ) .
In the new survey , 7 % of registered voters say they do n't favor or lean toward Obama or Romney at this point . Neither candidate is particularly appealing to these undecided voters : More hold an unfavorable opinion of Romney than a favorable opinion by a 57 % to 18 % margin . And only about a third ( 31 % ) of undecided voters view Obama favorably .
While there was less media coverage of the immigration debate last week than the previous week , public interest remained consistent . Roughly a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) followed news about immigration very closely , and 13 % listed this as their most closely followed story .
There is a broad consensus that the government should do `` a lot '' or `` some '' to reduce poverty – 82 % of Americans express this view , with 53 % saying the government should to a lot in this area . Most also believe the government should be addressing the gap between the rich and everyone else , but there is substantially less agreement in this area . While 69 % say the government should do something , fewer than half ( 43 % ) say it should be doing a lot and roughly a quarter ( 26 % ) say the government should take some action . Majorities of Americans believe the government can do at least something to reduce poverty and the gap between the rich and everyone else . But fewer believe the government can do a lot to lessen poverty ( 40 % ) than say it should take a lot of action to achieve this goal ( 53 % ) .
Japanese feel better about their economy than at any time in nearly two decades . But the overall mood in Japan remains wary , if not pessimistic . The prevailing view is that average people are worse off than before the Great Recession , while few think the next generation will fare any better . Automation is one reason the future may not be so bright for ordinary people : Majorities of Japanese say growing reliance on robots and computers will lead to joblessness and income inequality . And less than half the public is satisfied with the way democracy is working in Japan , while more than half hold the view that politicians do not care about ordinary people , that they are corrupt and that elections ultimately do not change much . Positive views of the economy are up 34 percentage points since the early days of the global financial crisis in 2009 . Nonetheless , in 2018 just 44 % say the current economic situation in Japan is good , while 55 % believe conditions are bad . Four-in-ten Japanese ( 41 % ) think average people today are worse off financially than they were 20 years ago . Just 26 % say they are better off . At the same time , only 15 % of the public believes that children today in Japan will grow up to be better off financially than their parents , while 76 % expect they will be worse off . That is among the lowest level of optimism about the next generation 's prospects among the 27 nations Pew Research Center surveyed in 2018 .
All told , 24 million U.S. children younger than 18 are living with an unmarried parent . Most ( 15 million ) are living with a solo mother . In comparison , 5 million live with cohabiting parents and 3 million live with a solo father . In 1968 – the first year for which these data are publicly available – 9 million children were living with an unmarried parent , 8 million of whom had a solo mom . The rise in U.S. children living with either cohabiting or solo parents is due in part to long-term declines in marriage , as well as increases in births outside of marriage . But the likelihood of a child – even one born to two married parents – spending part of their childhood in an unmarried parent household is on the rise . Increases in divorce mean that more than one-in-five children born within a marriage will experience a parental breakup by age 9 , as will more than half of children born within a cohabiting union . The share of children who are living with an unmarried parent varies by race and ethnicity . More than half ( 58 % ) of black children are living with an unmarried parent – 47 % with a solo mom . At the same time , 36 % of Hispanic children are living with an unmarried parent , as are 24 % of white children . The share of Asian children living with unmarried parents is markedly lower ( 13 % ) .
The survey also asked if a number of descriptions applied to the people of their generation . Silents are far more likely than people in younger age cohorts to view their own generation in a positive light . Large majorities of Silents say the people of their generation are hard-working ( 83 % ) , responsible ( 78 % ) , patriotic ( 73 % ) , self-reliant ( 65 % ) , moral ( 64 % ) , willing to sacrifice ( 61 % ) and compassionate ( 60 % ) .
One factor in people 's intention to be vaccinated is their assessment of their own need for the vaccine . About half of Americans who see themselves as being at little or no risk of getting a case of COVID-19 that would require hospitalization say they would not get vaccinated ( 52 % ) .
On the more positive side , about two-thirds of Americans say the statements `` social media highlight important issues that might not get a lot of attention otherwise '' ( 65 % ) and `` social media help give a voice to underrepresented groups '' ( 64 % ) describe social media very or somewhat well . Half of Americans also say the statement `` social media make it easier to hold powerful people accountable for their actions '' describes these platforms at least somewhat well . But even larger shares of the public think these platforms are distractions and that people may be engaging in `` slacktivism '' – a term critics have used to describe activism online . Roughly eight-in-ten Americans ( 79 % ) say the statement `` social media distract people from issues that are truly important '' describes social media very or somewhat well , while a similar share ( 76 % ) say the same about the statement `` social media make people think they are making a difference when they really are n't . '' Democrats are more likely than Republicans to see positive impacts of social media . For instance , three-quarters of Democrats say the statement `` social media highlight important issues that may not get a lot of attention otherwise '' describes these platforms at least somewhat well , compared with 55 % of Republicans . Democrats are also more likely than Republicans to say these platforms help give a voice to underrepresented groups ( 75 % vs. 52 % ) and make it easier to hold powerful people accountable for their actions ( 60 % vs. 40 % ) . By comparison , there is more partisan agreement when it comes to some negative aspects of using social media platforms for political engagement . However , Republicans are a bit more likely than Democrats to believe that social media distract people from issues that are truly important ( 82 % vs. 77 % ) or make people think they are making a difference when they really are n't ( 80 % vs. 74 % ) .
A median of 52 % across 26 countries surveyed by Pew Research Center between May 14 and Aug. 12 , 2018 , consider North Korea 's nuclear program to be a major threat to their country . Roughly half the interviews in the survey were fielded before the first meeting between the two leaders on June 12 , 2018 . Worries are especially prevalent in the five Asian-Pacific countries surveyed . There , a median of 61 % say the nuclear program is a major threat . In Japan , nearly three-in-four ( 73 % ) see the nuclear program as a threat . Two-thirds in neighboring South Korea consider North Korea a nuclear threat . And roughly six-in-ten in the Philippines and Indonesia also have worries about the nuclear program .
Most Americans hoped for efforts at cooperation between Trump and Democratic leaders in the current Congress , according to a post-election survey conducted in November . More than eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 84 % ) said Trump should cooperate either a great deal ( 39 % ) or a fair amount ( 45 % ) with Democratic leaders over the next two years . A smaller majority ( 65 % ) , however , said Democratic leaders should cooperate with Trump a great deal ( 28 % ) or a fair amount ( 36 % ) .
Public interest in news about the Olympics rivaled that of the presidential campaign last week . Roughly one-in-four Americans followed each of these two stories very closely and approximately one-in-five said that either the campaign ( 21 % ) or the Olympics ( 20 % ) was the story they followed most closely last week . In terms of news coverage , campaign reporting exceeded Olympic coverage by more than double ( 24 % vs. 11 % ) , but there were significant differences between media sectors . The campaign was the biggest story in three-out-of-five sectors ( cable TV , network television and on radio ) , while the Olympics was the number one story in newspaper and online coverage .
The black immigrant population has increased fivefold since 1980 . There were 4.2 million black immigrants living in the U.S. in 2016 , up from just 816,000 in 1980 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . Since 2000 alone , the number of black immigrants living in the country has risen 71 % . Now , roughly one-in-ten blacks ( 9 % ) living in the U.S. are foreign born , according to 2016 American Community Survey data , up from 3 % in 1980 . ( Immigrants make up 10 % of the black population in the March 2016 Current Population Survey . ) Much of the recent growth in the foreign-born black population has been fueled by African migration . Between 2000 and 2016 , the black African immigrant population more than doubled , from 574,000 to 1.6 million . Africans now make up 39 % of the overall foreign-born black population , up from 24 % in 2000 . Still , roughly half of all foreign-born blacks living in the U.S. in 2016 ( 49 % ) were from the Caribbean , with Jamaica and Haiti being the largest source countries .
However , there is one important caveat to the country 's cold feet about its international leadership . A huge majority of the public ( 68 % ) continues to believe that the United States is the world 's leading military power . And only one-in-three Americans think it would be acceptable if another country became as powerful as the U.S .
The FBI , CIA , and Department of Justice remain popular with the public . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) say they have a favorable view of the FBI and roughly six-in-ten view the CIA ( 62 % ) and the Justice Department ( 61 % ) favorably . Views of the FBI are little changed over the last year , while views of the CIA and Justice Department have improved modestly during this time period .
Researchers were able to match a very high percentage of panelists from the nationally representative survey sample to at least one of the five commercial voter files , suggesting that the files collectively cover a large share of the U.S. population . Depending on the voter file vendor , the percentage of panelists matched varied from a low of 50 % to a high of 79 % , with an average match rate of 69 % . Less than half ( 42 % ) of the panelists were located in all five files , but each of the vendors `` found '' panelists missed by other vendors . Differences among the vendors are largely a function of their tolerance for mismatches and , presumably , the success of their matching algorithms . Collectively , the vendors successfully matched 91 % of panelists , meaning that more than nine-in-ten panelists could be found on at least one of the files and just 9 % of panelists could not be found on any of the files . The relatively high level of coverage of the files is encouraging for researchers and campaigns that use them for targeting , messaging or research . Of course , most clients using these voter files will not have purchased all five of them , so match rates of 90 % and higher may be difficult if not impossible to achieve with any single file . Still , commercial voter files may disproportionately miss segments of the public who are politically disengaged , younger , Hispanic and more mobile . Specifically , the likelihood of finding an individual on a commercial voter file was strongly related to whether they were registered to vote . On average across the five vendors , 77 % of people who said they were registered to vote were matched . Only 38 % of the self-described unregistered voters were matched . Similarly , match rates varied greatly by panelists ' age , race and ethnicity . Only about one-in-five younger panelists ( 22 % of those ages 18 to 29 ) were found in all five files , as compared to more than half ( 59 % ) of older panelists ( ages 65 and older ) . Similarly , just 26 % of Hispanics were found in all five files , compared with 47 % of non-Hispanic whites . 2 Mobility is also a strong correlate . Only 14 % of those who reported moving in the last year were found on all five files . Those who reported living at their residence for longer matched at a much higher rate .
In surveys conducted between October 2007 and March 2008 , 58 % of voters under age 30 identified or leaned toward the Democratic Party , compared with 33 % who identified or leaned toward the GOP . The Democratic Party 's current lead in party identification among young voters has more than doubled since the 2004 campaign , from 11 points to 25 points .
Americans are also closely divided over whether transgender people should be able to use public restrooms that correspond to their current gender identity . Roughly half of all adults ( 51 % ) say transgender people should be able to use the restroom that matches the gender with which they currently identify , while 46 % say they should be required to use the restroom of their birth gender . In addition , young adults – those ages 18 - 29 – are far more likely than their elders to take the position that transgender people should be allowed to use restrooms that correspond to their current gender identify .
Views of why some people are rich and poor also vary by family income . Those with annual family incomes of $ 75,000 or more are more likely than those with incomes of less than $ 30,000 ( 49 % vs. 36 % ) to say being wealthy is more attributable to hard work than to a person 's advantages . Those with lower incomes , in turn , are more likely than those with higher incomes to say a person is poor more because of circumstances beyond their control than because of a lack of effort .
Majorities in 18 of the 34 countries surveyed say that , in a family , men and women have about the same influence when it comes to making important decisions about how to raise children . Still , in nearly every country , far larger shares say women have more influence in this area than say men do . And in seven of the 34 countries – Lithuania , Greece , Lebanon , Slovakia , Israel , the Czech Republic and Turkey – majorities or pluralities say women in their country have more influence than men in making important decisions about raising children . Men and women generally agree in their assessments of who has more influence when it comes to decisions about how to raise children , but there are exceptions . For example , in Brazil , women ( 43 % ) are more likely than men ( 34 % ) to say women in their country have more influence in making important decisions in this area ; in turn , Brazilian men ( 61 % ) are more likely then Brazilian women ( 52 % ) to say both have about the same influence . Across most of the countries surveyed , majorities or pluralities say men and women have about the same influence when it comes to making important decisions about their family 's religious practices . There are a few exceptions to this pattern . In Sweden , Israel and Nigeria , similar shares say men and women have about the same influence as say men have more influence than women in this area . And in Lithuania , 37 % say men and women have the same influence and 41 % say women have more influence .
More generally , people who report trying alternative medicine instead of conventional medicine see more risk from the MMR vaccine . Alternative medicine is a broad category that includes herbal dietary supplements , acupuncture , chiropractic , energy therapies and others that are not part of what is often called conventional or standard medical care . Some 43 % of Americans who have used alternative medicine instead of conventional treatment say the risk of side effects from the MMR vaccine is medium or high . By comparison , 30 % of those who report never using alternative medicine or using it in conjunction with conventional medicine say the risk of side effects from the vaccine is medium or high .
While wary about U.S. global involvement , there has been a shift in Americans ' views since Russia 's challenge to the pro-Western government in Ukraine , and the rapid rise of ISIS in the conflict-ridden Middle East . Today , 39 % of Americans say the U.S. is doing too much to solve world problems , a drop from the 51 % who said the same last November . Those saying that the U.S. does too little to address global problems has nearly doubled , from 17 % to 31 % .
A Pew Research Center/Washington Post poll conducted Sept. 1 - 4 shows a steady rise since March – from 34 % to 43 % – in the percentage of those saying that the job situation is the economic issue that worries them most . Those citing the budget deficit as their top worry declined from 28 % in May and 29 % in July to 22 % in September .
Newsroom employment at U.S. newspapers continues to plummet , falling by around half since 2008 , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data . But a modest increase in jobs after 2014 in other news-producing sectors – especially digital-native organizations – offset some of the losses at newspapers , helping to stabilize the overall number of U.S. newsroom employees in the last five years . From 2008 to 2019 , overall newsroom employment in the U.S. dropped by 23 % , according to the new analysis . In 2008 , there were about 114,000 newsroom employees – reporters , editors , photographers and videographers – in five industries that produce news : newspaper , radio , broadcast television , cable and `` other information services '' ( the best match for digital-native news publishers ) . By 2019 , that number had declined to about 88,000 , a loss of about 27,000 jobs .
About six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) say the higher education system in the United States is going in the wrong direction , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . But Republicans and Democrats differ over why they think this is the case .
Large gaps persist between blacks and whites on measures of wealth and income . Among blacks , the median household income was $ 44,100 in 2015 , compared with $ 75,100 for whites . And among full- and part-time workers , the median hourly earnings of blacks were 75 % of whites in 2015 . In terms of wealth , the median net worth of white households was roughly 13 times that of black households in 2013 ( $ 144,200 for white households , $ 11,200 for black households ) . The poverty rate among blacks is the highest among major racial and ethnic groups , but it has declined over time , from 31.1 % in 1976 to 24.1 % in 2015 , according to Census Bureau data . By comparison , the overall U.S. poverty rate has increased from 11.8 % in 1976 to 13.5 % in 2015 .
Among whites there is also a gender gap on views of workplace diversity : While 27 % of white women say a growing emphasis on diversity has helped them in their job or career , only 19 % of white men say the same . Similarly , 37 % of white women , compared with 20 % of white men , say women 's increased labor force participation has been beneficial for their own job or career . White women who are college graduates are particularly likely to see more women in the workforce as helpful : Half say this has had a positive impact on their job or career , while 27 % of those without a college degree say the same . When it comes to the growing emphasis on workplace diversity , blacks and Hispanics are about twice as likely as whites to say this has helped their job or career ( 45 % and 43 % respectively vs. 23 % ) . Among whites , these views vary by education : 31 % of white college graduates say this has helped them personally , compared with 17 % of non-college whites .
Three of Mexico 's major political parties tested on the survey receive majority-negative ratings from the public . Peña Nieto 's PRI gets the highest marks , with a favorability rating of 38 % . Still , a 56 % majority expresses a negative view of the party , up from 47 % last year . Meanwhile , the right-of-center PAN ( 63 % unfavorable ) and social-democratic PRD ( 68 % ) are even more unpopular .
To understand what 's happened to the Great American Summer Job , we looked at the average employment rate for 16- to 19-year-olds for June , July and August ( teen employment typically peaks in July of each year ) . Since 1948 , which is as far back as the data go , through subsequent decades , teen summer employment followed a fairly regular pattern : rising during economic good times and falling during and after recessions , but generally fluctuating between 46 % ( the low , in 1963 ) and 58 % ( the peak , in 1978 ) .
In 2017 , the typical unauthorized immigrant adult had lived in the U.S. for 15 years . That is the longest median duration of residence since 1995 , when Pew Research Center estimates began .
Medical research scientists also draw comparatively less confidence than doctors on a variety of specific questions about their work . Only around a third of the public , for instance , said these researchers always or usually care about the best interests of the public ( 35 % ) and provide fair and accurate information ( 32 % ) .
There has been an overall gain of 6.4 million more non-farm payroll jobs last month than in January 2009 , which represents a 4.8 % increase . All of that growth came from the private sector , while the public sector shrunk : Private payrolls have added 7 million jobs over Obama 's presidency , while government payrolls ( federal , state and local ) have contracted by a combined 634,000 jobs . The service sector has generated many of the new jobs , particularly in health care , temporary help , and the bar , restaurant and food service business .
Prior to the recent surge , however , new case rates across the EU were much flatter than in the U.S. , and most people in eight EU countries thought their own country – and the bloc as a whole – had done a good job dealing with the pandemic , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted between June 10 and Aug. 3 , 2020 . Here 's a closer look at findings from the survey , as well as public health and economic data about how the EU has been faring during the pandemic . Most people in the surveyed countries approved of how the EU was handling COVID-19 . As of August , half or more in every country surveyed said the EU had done a good job handling the outbreak , including around two-thirds or more in Germany ( 68 % ) , Denmark ( 68 % ) , the Netherlands ( 66 % ) and Spain ( 65 % ) . Spaniards , in fact , were more approving of the EU 's response than of their own country 's ( 65 % vs. 54 % ) .
While the current death rates remain highest in districts controlled by Democrats , the trend in coronavirus fatalities over time has been decreasing in Democratic districts steadily since mid-April . In contrast , Republican-controlled districts have not seen the same declines in the trend over time . In mid-April , the average number of new deaths across all congressional districts in the country peaked at about five new deaths per day . That figure has declined by about 40 % overall to roughly three new deaths per day as of last week . The decline of deaths in Democratic districts has outpaced the national average , decreasing from an average of more than seven new deaths per day in mid-April to about four new deaths per day in the second half of May . During this same period , the number of new deaths in districts controlled by Republicans has remained relatively steady ( an average of just under two deaths per day in GOP districts ) .
Private households were the most immigrant-intensive `` industry '' in 2014 . Of the 947,000 people working for private households , 45 % were immigrants , with lawful immigrants slightly outnumbering unauthorized immigrants . The industries with the next-biggest shares of immigrant workers were textile , apparel and leather manufacturers ( 36 % ) and the farm sector : A third ( 33 % ) of the nearly 2 million agriculture workers in 2014 were born outside the U.S .
Now , just over half of Americans ( 55 % ) say they favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , while 37 % remain opposed , according to Pew Research Center 's March poll . A decade ago , the balance of opinion was reversed : 55 % were opposed , while 35 % were in favor .
Today , more Americans search for `` flowers '' around Mother 's Day than Valentine 's Day , according to Google Trends data for the last 10 years . While the volume of searches for `` flowers '' in the United States are stable through most of the year , searches peak on the Friday before Mother 's Day and on Valentine 's Day . Google 's Trends tool measures the popularity of a search term relative to all searches in the United States . Data are reported on a scale from 0 to 100 .
More Americans get news on Twitter and Facebook than in the past , according to a new report by Pew Research Center in association with the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation . The survey of 2,035 U.S. adults sheds light on Americans ' evolving news and information habits on the two platforms . More users are getting news on both sites than in the past . Nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) of Facebook users and the same share of Twitter users get news via each of the social media sites . This is up substantially from 2013 , when about half of each social network 's users ( 47 % for Facebook , 52 % for Twitter ) reported getting news there . ( In both studies , we defined news as `` information about events and issues beyond just friends and family . '' ) This increase in exposure to news among users emerges even as overall usage of each site has remained steady since 2013 : 17 % of U.S. adults use Twitter and two-thirds ( 66 % ) use Facebook . Overall , 10 % of all U.S. adults get news on Twitter , and 41 % get news on Facebook . The percentage of Twitter users who follow breaking news there is nearly twice as high as that of Facebook users . While the share of users who get news on each site is about the same , Twitter news users are more likely than Facebook news users to depend on the social network for breaking news . Nearly six-in-ten Twitter news users ( 59 % ) use the site to keep up with a news event as it is happening , which is almost double the rate among Facebook news users ( 31 % ) .
Majorities across all major religious groups support a school-based requirement for the MMR vaccine . However , white evangelical Protestants ( 20 % ) are slightly more likely than white mainline Protestants ( 11 % ) to think that parents should be able to decide whether to have their children vaccinated .
At the same time that Europeans give the U.S. poorer ratings for this element of soft power , they believe American economic power is on the rise . Between 2009 and 2012 , Europeans increasingly saw China , rather than the U.S. , as the world 's economic leader . However , the pendulum has swung back in the other direction since 2012 , and today Europeans are now essentially divided on this question . A median of 41 % across five EU nations – Britain , France , Germany , Poland , Spain – name China as the top economy , while a median of 39 % say it is America .
A wide majority of voters say voting was `` very easy '' for them personally , regardless of how or when they voted . Overall , 77 % of those who voted in person say voting was very easy for them . Slightly fewer of those who report voting by mail say the same ( 72 % ) . There is little difference between the two groups in the share saying it was difficult . Voters who cast their vote before Election Day are just as likely as those who voted on Election Day to say the experience was easy : 75 % of early voters say it was very easy for them compared with 77 % of those who turned out on Election Day .
The rise in unfavorable views comes amid widespread criticism over how China has handled the coronavirus pandemic . Across the 14 nations surveyed , a median of 61 % say China has done a bad job dealing with the outbreak . This is many more than say the same of the way the COVID-19 pandemic was handled by their own country or by international organizations like the World Health Organization or the European Union . Only the U.S. receives more negative evaluations from the surveyed publics , with a median of 84 % saying the U.S. has handled the coronavirus outbreak poorly .
The Democratic Party has substantially widened its margin in party identification over the Republican Party since the last presidential election and has made notable gains in many of this year 's political battleground states . Nearly four-in-ten voters ( 38 % ) identified themselves as Democrats in 2008 surveys by the Pew Research Center ; 34 % self-identified as independents ; and 28 % identified themselves as Republicans . These data are based on more than 28,000 interviews conducted this year by the Pew Research Center . In 2004 , the balance of party affiliation was far more closely divided : 35 % of voters called themselves Democrats , 33 % Republicans , and 32 % independents .
Perhaps unsurprisingly , frequent loneliness is linked to dissatisfaction with one 's family , social and community life , the survey found . About three-in-ten ( 28 % ) of those dissatisfied with their family life feel lonely all or most of the time , compared with just 7 % of those satisfied with their family life . Satisfaction with one 's social life follows a similar pattern : 26 % of those dissatisfied with their social life are frequently lonely , compared with just 5 % of those who are satisfied with their social life . It 's unclear whether dissatisfaction with particular areas of life leads to feelings of loneliness or vice versa – or whether something else entirely is driving reported feelings of loneliness and isolation .
Overall feelings about the federal government are little different than they were in March 2019 . About a quarter ( 24 % ) say they feel angry toward the federal government today ( 21 % said this in March 2019 ) . A 57 % majority reports frustration , while 18 % say they are basically content . Overall feelings toward the federal government have been remarkably stable over the past five years . The shares who say they are angry ( 22 % ) , frustrated ( 57 % ) and content ( 18 % ) with the government are each identical or nearly identical to October 2015 .
Most immigrants ( 77 % ) are in the country legally , while almost a quarter are unauthorized , according to new Pew Research Center estimates based on census data adjusted for undercount . In 2017 , 45 % were naturalized U.S. citizens .
The share of Latino adults who identify as Catholic is declining as the share of Protestants and the religiously unaffiliated rise . Today , 55 % of Latinos say they are Catholic , a drop of 12 percentage points in the last four years , while the share of those who are Protestant and unaffiliated with any religion has risen , according to a Pew Research Center survey of Latino adults . But differences exist among Hispanics when they are looked at by their country of origin : Mexicans and Dominicans are more likely than most other Hispanic origin groups to say they are Catholic . Meanwhile , Salvadorans are more likely to say they are evangelical Protestant than Mexicans , Cubans and Dominicans . About six-in-ten Mexicans ( 61 % ) and Dominicans ( 59 % ) identify as Catholic , compared with about 49 % of Cubans , 45 % of Puerto Ricans and 42 % of Salvadorans . Some one-third of Salvadorans are evangelical Protestants .
Trade and foreign investment engender both faith and skepticism around the world , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of 44 nations . Global publics , particularly in emerging and developing economies , agree that international commercial activity is a good thing . But not everyone is convinced , especially in advanced economies .
While more people name health care as their top story of the week , news about the condition of the U.S. economy continues to be near the top of the public 's news agenda : 42 % say they followed economic news very closely and 21 % say they followed reports about the economy more closely than any other story . Media coverage of economic news was also robust : 15 % of the newshole was devoted to reports on the economy , a close second to the health care debate ( 16 % ) , according to PEJ . In other news , Bill Clinton 's trip to North Korea to secure the release of two American journalists was followed very closely by 28 % of the public with 14 % calling it their top story of the week . Democrats ( 44 % very closely ) were more likely than Republicans ( 21 % very closely ) to say they were following the story . Coverage of Clinton 's diplomatic trip accounted for 11 % of the newshole . More than two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they followed the Senate confirmation of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court very closely , though just 7 % named it their top story . In 2005 , 28 % said they followed news about the confirmation of John Roberts as chief justice of the court very closely . As with news about Bill Clinton , more Democrats closely followed news about Sotomayor than Republicans . Almost one-in-four ( 24 % ) followed the U.S. military effort in Afghanistan very closely and 13 % say they followed a shooting at a fitness club in Pennsylvania very closely ; 6 % name Afghanistan their top story of the week , 4 % name the Pennsylvania shooting .
A Pew Research Center survey from March to April 2013 showed that only 14 % of Israelis have a favorable view of Turkey , with 80 % holding an unfavorable opinion . Views toward Israel in Turkey are even worse , with only 2 % of the Turkish population holding a positive opinion of Israel and 86 % viewing their Mediterranean neighbor negatively . In addition to low marks for their respective nations , the two prime ministers , Benjamin Netanyahu in Israel and Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Turkey , also receive dismal ratings . Only 4 % in Turkey have a favorable view of Netanyahu , with 70 % voicing an unfavorable rating , including 54 % who say that they view the Israeli prime minister very unfavorably . Meanwhile , only 14 % of Israelis see Erdogan in a positive light , with 84 % seeing him negatively ( including 53 % who say very unfavorable ) .
Two-thirds of Americans favor marijuana legalization , reflecting a steady increase in public support , according to a September 2019 Pew Research Center survey . Public opinion on marijuana legalization was essentially the opposite nearly two decades ago : In 2000 , 63 % said the use of marijuana should be illegal . Few Americans say marijuana should be illegal under all circumstances . In the fall 2019 survey , 59 % of U.S. adults said marijuana should be legal for recreational and medical purposes , while another 32 % said it should be legal for medical use only . Just 8 % said the drug should not be legal .
Higher shares of adults in Senegal and South Africa say they have friends or relatives they stay in touch with regularly in Europe than say this about friends or relatives in the U.S . Meanwhile , in Ghana , Nigeria and Tanzania , people have friends or relatives they stay in touch with in Europe and the U.S. at about the same rate . In Kenya , a higher share of people have contacts in the United States .
As in the past , there is extensive public support for increasing federal funding for veterans benefits and education ( 72 % each ) . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) support more government spending for rebuilding the nation 's highways , bridges and roads , while 55 % each favor more funding for Medicare and environmental protection .
Latinos also continue to be more optimistic than other groups about the future of the nation 's economy . In the June 2016 survey , 44 % of Latinos said they expect economic conditions in the U.S. to be better a year from now , compared with 35 % of blacks and 24 % of whites .
In addition to the general findings already described , the 14-country survey reveals important differences by age , with younger adults ( ages 18 to 29 ) more favorably inclined toward the UN and WHO as well as toward international cooperation in general . Among this cohort , 72 % say they have a positive view of the UN , compared with 58 % among those 50 and older . Age gaps also appear in support for the principle of cooperation between countries to manage the COVID-19 pandemic and for the WHO 's handling of the pandemic .
As one measure of the impact of the internet , we have repeatedly asked online Americans whether or not the internet has improved various aspects of their life . Over time , internet users have become more likely to note big improvements in their ability to shop and the way they pursue their hobbies and interests . A majority of internet users also consistently report that the internet helps them to do their job and improves the way the get information about health care . Some key findings are listed below : In all four categories ( health information , job , hobbies and shopping ) , the internet earns the highest marks among the most frequent users . For instance , daily internet users are twice as likely to report that the internet improves their ability to do their job `` a lot '' when compared with those who only go online several times a week ( 45 % vs. 17 % ) . Likewise , 39 % of daily internet users report that the internet has improved the way they pursue their hobbies and interests `` a lot , '' while about half as many ( 21 % ) users who go online several times per week say this .
As was the case earlier this year , most voters have doubts that either Clinton or Trump would make a good president . Just 27 % of registered voters say that Trump would make a good or great president , while about twice as many ( 55 % ) say he would be either poor or terrible ( with 43 % saying he would make a `` terrible '' president ) . Just 15 % say Trump would make an `` average '' president . Opinions about how Clinton might do as president are not as negative . Still , only about a third of voters ( 31 % ) say she would be a good or great president , while 22 % say would be average and 45 % think she would be a poor ( 12 % ) or terrible ( 33 % ) president .
Roughly one-in-three Germans ( 35 % ) have a positive view of Russia , compared with only about one-in-five Americans . Ratings for Russia in both the U.S. and Germany have fallen sharply since 2011 , when massive protests swept across Russia after accusations of ballot-rigging in the December parliamentary elections . They reached a low point in 2014 after the annexation of Crimea ( 19 % favorable in both countries ) .
While there are sizable differences in opinion on this issue by racial and ethnic group , religious group and political ideology , there are , at most , modest differences among different age groups . Maynard 's generation is no more supportive of such laws than are older Americans : 45 % of those ages 18 - 29 approve of assisted-suicide laws , while 54 % oppose them .
Becoming caught up in a serious ethics scandal is n't necessarily a career-ender for a member of the U.S. House of Representatives . It turns out only about a quarter exit the political stage through resignation or retirement . The rest choose to seek re-election despite the blot on their records—and two-thirds of them win .
There is little public support for a complete reversal of Roe v. Wade . In a survey from December 2016 – the last time the Center asked about it – around three-in-ten U.S. adults ( 28 % ) said they would like to see the Supreme Court completely overturn Roe v. Wade , but around seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) said they would not .
Close to half ( 46 % ) say they have been following reports about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely ; 13 % say this was the one story they followed more closely than any other . Coverage of the economy – excluding reports on the financial regulation bill and unemployment benefits – made up 9 % of the newshole .
Partisan differences are also present today when asking about feeling safe versus having freedom of speech online . Democrats are more likely than Republicans to think people being able to feel welcome and safe online is more important than people being able to speak their minds freely online ( 60 % vs. 45 % ) , while Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say people being able to speak their minds freely online is more important ( 54 % vs. 38 % ) .
The decline in Obama 's approval rating comes at a time when the number of Americans saying that real estate prices have gone up has jumped from 25 % in 2011 to 52 % currently , and 71 % of investors say the value of their portfolios have increased .
Rather than crushing them with too much information and making it hard to find useful material , most Americans say the internet and cell phones have brought benefits in learning , sharing and diversifying the flow of information into their lives . A new survey by the Pew Research Center finds that the vast majority of Americans believe their use of the web helps them learn new things , stay better informed on topics that matter to them , and increases their capacity to share ideas and creations with others . Online Americans especially highlight how the internet and cell phones have made them better informed about products and services available for sale , national and international news , and popular culture . Asked if their internet use affected their being better informed on these issues compared with five years ago :
During the first two years of the nation 's economic recovery , the mean net worth of households in the upper 7 % of the wealth distribution rose by an estimated 28 % , while the mean net worth of households in the lower 93 % dropped by 4 % , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of newly released Census Bureau data . From 2009 to 2011 , the mean wealth of the 8 million households in the more affluent group rose to an estimated $ 3,173,895 from an estimated $ 2,476,244 , while the mean wealth of the 111 million households in the less affluent group fell to an estimated $ 133,817 from an estimated $ 139,896 .
When it comes to the 18 % of teachers who took a second job during the 2015 - 16 school year , there were no major differences by age or teaching experience level . But there were differences by gender : During the school year , roughly a quarter ( 26 % ) of male teachers had a second job , compared with 15 % of female teachers . ( The pattern was similar for the previous summer , when 24 % of male teachers had a second job , versus 13 % of female teachers . )
Most across the Middle East and in the U.S. lack confidence in Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed to do the right thing regarding world affairs . Among those in the five countries where the question was asked , Israelis have the least faith in the prince , with roughly eight-in-ten saying they doubt his ability to effectively manage international dealings . Only about a fifth of American and Lebanese respondents express confidence that the crown prince can effectively handle international concerns .
This allowed us to gauge support for increasing or decreasing diversity , gender equality and a more important role for religion in their countries . Since large majorities in most countries told us that family ties were weakening and that it was a bad thing , we did not do this analysis on that question . The results of this analysis reveal people are strongly in favor of increased gender equality but share more tepid enthusiasm for increased ethnic , religious and racial diversity . And despite secularization trends , most across the 27 countries surveyed do not oppose a more important role for religion in their society . Across Europe , North America and Australia , there is strong consensus that diversity has increased in their countries . And for the most part , that diversity is welcomed . Two exceptions are Greece , where 62 % oppose a more diverse country , and to a lesser extent Italy , where 45 % oppose diversity . But in the United Kingdom , Canada , the United States , Australia and Spain , roughly six-in-ten say they are in favor of more diversity .
Most Turks still believe that a democratic form of government is the best way to solve their country 's problems . However , a growing minority ( 36 % ) say that Turkey should rely on a leader with a strong hand to improve their lives . In 2012 , only 26 % said this , while 68 % preferred a democratic form of government when given this choice .
New mothers today who worked during their pregnancy are more likely than new mothers in the early 1980s to use some form of paid leave ( which consists largely of maternity leave , but also includes sick and vacation leave , among other types ) either while pregnant or in the 12 weeks after the birth . In the late 2000s , about half ( 51 % ) of these women used paid leave , while in the early 1980s , just 37 % did . Unlike its developed-world counterparts , the U.S. does not mandate any paid leave for new mothers under federal law , though some individual employers make that accommodation and it is mandated by a handful of individual states . By contrast , Estonia offers about two years of paid leave , and Hungary and Lithuania offer more than one year of fully paid leave , according to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development . While U.S. law mandates no paid leave , it does require 12 weeks of protected leave to eligible employees . A higher share of U.S. women who had their first child between 2006 and 2008 used unpaid leave ( 42 % ) – the kind Young received from UPS – than in the early 1980s ( 34 % ) , according to census data . Conversely , the share of women who were fired from or quit their jobs declined from 39 % to 27 % during that same time period .
There is a division on ideological lines among Democrats on whether a vote for Trump would strain a friendship . Liberal Democrats are about evenly divided between saying say their friendship would be strained ( 47 % ) if a friend said they voted for Trump and saying it would not have any effect ( 51 % ) . Far more conservative and moderate Democrats say a friend voting for Trump would not have any effect ( 73 % ) than say it would put a strain on the friendship ( 25 % ) .
In several immigrant destination countries , large majorities say immigrants are not more to blame for crime than other groups . This is the case in Canada , the U.S. , France and the UK . Among other countries surveyed , only in South Africa , Sweden and Greece do majorities believe that immigrants are more to blame for crime than other groups . In the Netherlands , Japan , Israel and Germany , opinions are split on the impact of immigrants on crime . In four other countries where views were mixed , substantial shares refused to choose either of the two statements offered – Italy ( 26 % ) , Hungary ( 17 % ) , Poland ( 15 % ) and Russia ( 14 % ) .
Overall opinions of the Supreme Court are unchanged since February , at 58 % favorable , but are somewhat less positive than in April 2009 ( 64 % favorable ) . Over this period , favorable impressions of the court among Republicans have fallen by 18 points – from 70 % to 52 % . Democrats ' views of the Supreme Court have shown less change : 65 % now have a favorable view of the Supreme Court , up slightly from February ( 57 % ) , and about the same as in April 2009 ( 63 % ) . Independents ' opinions also have changed little over this period . Currently , 58 % of independents have a positive impression of the court .
Palin clearly has boosted John McCain 's visibility . From mid-June through the last week of August , Barack Obama consistently led McCain as the candidate the public was hearing the most about in the news . McCain received an expected bump following the Republican convention , but he continued to top Obama last week as 41 % pointed to McCain as the more visible candidate while 32 % named Obama . Notably , 17 % said they had been hearing the most about Palin – even though they were specifically asked to name a presidential candidate .
Black South Africans hold significantly more favorable views of the ANC compared with other racial groups . Nearly three-quarters of blacks in South Africa say they hold very favorable or somewhat favorable opinions of the country 's leading party , the ANC – which was once led by the country 's first democratically elected president , Nelson Mandela , and has historically carried strong support from blacks . By contrast , only 27 % of white and 30 % of coloured South Africans say they view the ANC favorably . ( Note : The term `` coloured '' is commonly used in South Africa to describe people of multiple races . It is used throughout this post to reflect survey question wording . ) The Democratic Alliance ( DA ) , which has established itself as the main opposition party in this year 's election , garners significantly higher favorability measures among white ( 80 % favorable ) and coloured ( 69 % ) South Africans as of 2018 . Conversely , only about three-in-ten blacks say they have positive opinions of the DA .
Turks are generally dissatisfied with the state of their country . Just over half ( 54 % ) are dissatisfied with the way things are going in Turkey , while 44 % are satisfied . Dissatisfaction has grown since 2013 , when 48 % were unhappy with the state of the nation . However , it is important to note that from 2002 to 2010 , Turks were generally distressed about their country 's direction . Only in recent years have opinions become somewhat more optimistic .
First , voter turnout rates for Hispanics have been significantly below those of other groups . In 2012 , fewer than half ( 48 % ) of Hispanic eligible voters cast a ballot ( Lopez and Gonzalez-Barrera , 2013 ) . By comparison , 64.1 % of whites and 66.6 % of blacks voted . ( Asians , at 46.9 % , had a turnout rate similar to that of Hispanics . ) At the same time , due to the group 's fast-growing population , the absolute number of Hispanic voters has reached record highs despite a decline in voter turnout between the 2008 and 2012 presidential elections . In 2012 , a record 11.2 million Hispanics voted ( Lopez and Gonzalez-Barrera , 2013 ) , up from what was a record 9.7 million in 2008 ( Lopez and Taylor , 2009 ) . It is possible that a record number of Hispanics could vote in 2016 , continuing a pattern of record turnout in presidential elections . Second , the large share ( 44 % ) of millennials among Latino eligible voters , who are less likely to cast a ballot than older voters , could have an impact on voter turnout for all Latinos in 2016 . In 2012 , just 37.8 % of Latino millennials voted , compared with 53.9 % among non-millennial Latinos . The voter turnout rate among Latino millennials also trails that of other millennial groups . Some 47.5 % of white millennials and 55 % of black millennials voted in 2012 . Among Asians , 37.3 % of millennials voted . In addition , Latino millennials register to vote at a lower rate than other millennial groups . Half ( 50 % ) of Latino millennial eligible voters said they were registered to vote in 2012 , compared with 61 % among white millennials and 64 % among black millennials . Among Asian millennial eligible voters , 48 % were registered to vote .
While public views of the situation in Iraq have grown more negative , there has been no change in opinions about whether U.S. forces should be withdrawn from the country . The public remains evenly divided between those who favor keeping `` military troops in Iraq until the situation has stabilized '' ( 47 % ) , and those who think `` the U.S. should bring its troops home as soon as possible '' ( 47 % ) . Since June , the share of the public saying we should keep troops in Iraq has hovered between 47 % and 50 % , while during the same time period the percentage who believe the war is going well first dropped from 53 % to 41 % , then rose to 47 % , and has now declined once more to 37 % .
Just 15 % of Democrats say recent economic news is mostly bad , down from 31 % a month ago and among the lowest percentages over the last four years . Six-in-ten Republicans ( 60 % ) say news about the economy is mostly bad , as do 36 % of independents . Opinions among Republicans and independents are largely unchanged from a month ago .
Americans are closely divided in their view of the news media 's coverage of climate change . Some 47 % of U.S. adults say the media does a good job covering global climate change , while 51 % say they do a bad job . A 58 % majority of people following climate news very closely say the media do a good job , however . Conservative Republicans stand out as more negative in their overall views about climate change news coverage . Public ratings of the media may be linked to views about the mix of news coverage . In all , 35 % of Americans say the media exaggerates the threat from climate change , a roughly similar share ( 42 % ) says the media does not take the threat seriously enough ; two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say the media are about right in their reporting . People 's views on this are strongly linked with political divides ; 72 % of conservative Republicans say the media exaggerates the threat of climate change , while 64 % of liberal Democrats say the media does not take the threat of climate change seriously enough .
According to the new survey , which was taken before Trump 's inauguration and the reported rise in deportration concerns , Hispanics are split in their concern about deportation . About half ( 47 % ) of Hispanic adults , regardless of their immigration status , say they worry `` a lot '' or `` some '' that they themselves , a family member or a close friend , could be deported , while 52 % say they are worried `` not at all '' or `` not much . ''
Among those who have an opinion of Sen. Elizabeth Warren , most say they have a favorable impression of her . About one-quarter of the public ( 27 % ) rates Warren favorably and 17 % feel unfavorably , but a 56 % majority does not express an opinion .
Opinions about which country is the world 's leading economic power are also shifting in the Philippines . While 49 % still consider the U.S. the world 's top economic power , this is down from 66 % two years ago . Meanwhile , the share of the public naming China has risen from 14 % to 25 % in that same time period .
Women ( 55 % ) are more likely than men ( 46 % ) to believe that the trilateral trade agreement has been good for the U.S. And about twice as many men ( 25 % ) as women ( 12 % ) say NAFTA has been very bad for the country . Roughly six-in-ten ( 62 % ) Americans ages 18 to 29 – who were children or not even born when NAFTA was signed – voice the view that the trade deal has been good for the country ; only 26 % see it as bad . Those ages 50 and older lean in the opposite direction : 44 % see the accord positively , while 49 % see it negatively , including 22 % who believe it has been very bad for the U.S. Hispanics ( 66 % ) and African Americans ( 59 % ) say NAFTA has been good for the U.S. , but just 46 % of non-Hispanic whites agree .
Americans are closely divided on the issue of whether the marches will increase public support for science : 44 % think they will help and 44 % think they will make no difference . Another 7 % believe they will hurt public support . Most Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 61 % ) believe the marches and demonstrations held in April will benefit public support for science . By contrast , just 22 % of Republicans and independents who lean to the GOP say the marches will help drive public support for science , while six-in-ten ( 60 % ) of this group believes the marches will have no impact on public support and 13 % say the marches will hurt public support .
India lags behind other emerging nations in internet access and smartphone ownership . Across the 21 emerging and developing nations surveyed in 2015 ( including India ) , a median of 54 % have internet access and 37 % own smartphones . In India , however , only 22 % have internet access and only 17 % have a smartphone . Like most of the 40 countries surveyed in 2015 , there are big demographic differences in internet access . Younger , more-educated and higher-income Indians are more likely to use the web than older , less-educated and lower-income Indians ( relative to the median household income within India ) . Men are also more likely to have access than women , as are Indians residing in the wealthier North and West regions of India where major cities like Delhi and Mumbai are located compared with the less prosperous South and East . Overall , these patterns hold true among India 's smartphone users as well .
In fiscal 2018 – the most recent year for which complete data is available – CBP and ICE together carried out 337,287 removals of unauthorized immigrants , a 17 % increase from the previous year , according to the Department of Homeland Security . But removals remained below the levels recorded during much of the Obama administration , including a three-year period between fiscal 2012 and 2014 when there were more than 400,000 per year .
The public was closely divided over the safety implications in the event that the use of autonomous cars becomes widespread . For instance , 39 % of adults said that they anticipated that the number of people killed or injured in traffic accidents would decrease . Slightly fewer ( 30 % ) said traffic fatalities or injuries would increase , while 31 % said that the number of deaths or injuries would stay about the same .
Amid record unemployment claims and the disruption of commercial activity caused by the novel coronavirus outbreak , the public 's assessments of the U.S. economy have deteriorated with extraordinary speed and severity . Just 23 % of Americans now rate economic conditions in the country as excellent or good , down sharply from 57 % at the start of the year .
In polling conducted shortly after the State of the Union address , 18 % say their views have become more positive , 22 % say they have become more negative and 57 % say their views have not changed in recent weeks . One week earlier— following Republican Scott Brown 's win in the special Senate election in Massachusetts – the balance of opinion was more negative . In polling conducted Jan. 22 - 25 , 8 % said their views of Obama had grown more positive , while a third ( 33 % ) said they had become more negative .
There has been a shift since 1970 in the parts of the world sending the most immigrants to the U.S. – from Europe to Mexico to Asia . In 1970 , the largest group of immigrants who had arrived within the previous five years were from Europe , continuing the trend of previous immigration waves . By 2000 , almost half of newly arrived immigrants were from Central and South America ( including 34 % from Mexico alone ) . As immigration from Mexico slowed significantly in the 2000s , Asians came to make up the largest group of new immigrants beginning around 2011 , and projections indicate that will still be the case in 2065 . Today 's immigrants are more dispersed across the U.S. than they were in 1970 . After the passage of the 1965 law , newly arrived immigrants increasingly settled in California , New York , Texas and Florida . By 1980 over half of those who arrived within the previous five years had settled there and , by 1990 , nearly two-thirds had . But starting in the 1990s , new arrivals began to settle in less-traditional immigrant states , and by 2013 , half of new arrivals chose to live in areas other than these big four magnet states .
The rise in the share of voters saying voting will be easy since August is largely attributable to shifting views among Biden voters . In August , more Biden voters said that voting would be difficult ( 60 % ) than easy ( 40 % ) . Today , 62 % of Biden voters say they expect voting will be easy .
By 55 % to 35 % , Hispanics say that they think being able to live and work in the United States legally without the threat of deportation is more important for unauthorized immigrants than a pathway to citizenship . Asian Americans hold a similar view , albeit by a smaller margin—49 % to 44 % .
Indian Americans generally are well-off . Median annual household income for Indian Americans in 2010 was $ 88,000 , much higher than for all Asian Americans ( $ 66,000 ) and all U.S. households ( $ 49,800 ) — perhaps not surprising , given their high education levels . Only 9 % of adult Indian Americans live in poverty , compared with 12 % of Asian Americans overall and 13 % of the U.S. population . In 2010 , by our analysis , 28 % of Indian American worked in science and engineering fields ; according to the 2013 American Community Survey , more than two-thirds ( 69.3 % ) of Indian Americans 16 and older were in management , business , science and arts occupations .
Gen Z eligible voters , who range in age from 18 to 23 , are a more racially and ethnically diverse group than older generations . While a majority ( 55 % ) are non-Hispanic White , a notable 22 % are Hispanic , according to a Pew Research Center analysis based on Census Bureau data . Some 14 % of Gen Z eligible voters are Black , 5 % are Asian and 5 % are some other race or multiracial .
Refugees with no religious affiliation were 5 % of all refugees admitted to the U.S. in fiscal 2002 . Since then , the share of refugees with no religious affiliation has decreased , amounting to less than 1 % of refugees entering the U.S. during fiscal 2017 . Even with the recent rise in the number of Muslim refugees , far more Christian than Muslim refugees have been admitted into the U.S. since fiscal 2002 . Nearly 425,000 Christian refugees entered the U.S. over that period , accounting for 46 % of all refugee arrivals . At the same time , about a third ( 33 % ) of all refugees admitted to the U.S. between 2002 and 2017 , or slightly more than 302,000 , were Muslim . Some 169,000 refugees belonging to other religions entered the U.S. during the same time period , with about 55,000 claiming Hindu religious identity ( mostly from Bhutan ) and about 50,000 additional refugees claiming Buddhist religious identity ( mostly from Burma and Bhutan ) . More than 20,000 refugees with no religious affiliation have entered the U.S. between fiscal 2002 and 2017 , mostly from Cuba and Vietnam .
Despite growing anti-Chinese sentiment , people in most countries surveyed approve of the decision to hold the Olympics in Beijing . In 14 of 23 countries , clear majorities favor the idea . Dissenters are most prevalent in Japan ( 55 % ) , France ( 55 % ) , Germany ( 47 % ) and the U.S. ( 43 % ) . Advocates of the Olympics decision are most often found in neighboring Asian nations India , Indonesia , Pakistan and South Korea . But many people in African and Latin American nations that have strong economic ties to China , including Nigeria ( 79 % ) , Argentina ( 72 % ) , Mexico ( 67 % ) and Brazil ( 76 % ) , are also overwhelmingly enthusiastic about the decision .
Several African nations stand out among the most conservative on the issue of contraceptive use , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of people in 40 countries . Nigeria , Ghana , Uganda , Kenya and Senegal ranked among the nine countries with the most moral opposition to contraception . In Nigeria and Ghana , roughly half or more of each population said that contraceptive use is morally unacceptable ( 54 % and 52 % , respectively ) . Out of the 40 countries surveyed , only Pakistan ( 65 % ) had a higher rate of opposition . There is less moral objection to contraception in the other sub-Saharan African nations in the survey , but significant shares in Uganda ( 38 % ) , Kenya ( 33 % ) and Senegal ( 28 % ) said contraceptive use is morally wrong . The comparable figure for the U.S. is 7 % .
Note : Item No . 3 in this post was updated on May 1 , 2018 , to reflect the Center 's revised definition of the Millennial generation and the updated year in which Millennials will be the largest generation in the U.S. and in the American electorate .
Way back in 1994 , when few Americans had even heard of the internet , most people still walked to their bank 's nearest branch to do whatever check cashing or bill paying they could n't do at the corner store or by mail . When a survey by the Pew Center for the People & the Press asked the principal bill-payer in each household , `` Do you ever do ‘ electronic banking ' from home—that is , use a computer or the telephone to pay bills or move money from one account to another ? '' fewer than one in ten ( 9 % ) among this group said yes , they had done such a transaction . By 1995 , that figure had risen to 13 % of bill-payers . In 1998 , when the Pew Research Center switched to asking all internet users if they ever paid bills or banked online , 13 % of this larger group , or about 10 million American adults , said yes . By 2000 , when the Pew Internet & American Life Project fielded our first survey , the proportion of internet users who said they ever did any banking online had risen to 17 % or about 16 million Americans . Over the next few years , internet users ramped up a range of online financial and transactional activities , trusting more and more of their personal financial information to the Web . Among categories of activities , online banking and online auctions grew the most rapidly , especially among men , home broadband users , and internet users under the age of 50 .
There were 2,254 non-fatal violent crime victimizations per 100,000 Americans ages 12 and older in 2011 , compared with 7,976 in 1993 . The number of such victimizations in 2011 — 5.8 million — also was a decline from 16.8 million victimizations in 1993 .
Fully 67 % say they are hearing `` mostly bad '' news about the economy , up 18 points in the last month alone and more than 40 points since the start of 2011 . The public 's current views of economic news are now as bleak as they were shortly before Barack Obama took office in January 2009 . At that time , 67 % also said they were hearing mostly bad news about the economy , but that number fell sharply during the first few months of Obama 's presidency .
In U.S. congressional races nationwide , an estimated 69 % of Latinos voted for the Democratic candidate and 29 % backed the Republican candidate , a more than two-to-one advantage for Democrats , according to National Election Pool exit poll data . These results largely reflect the party affiliation of Latinos . In a Pew Research Center pre-election survey , 62 % of Latinos said they identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party compared with 27 % who affiliated with the Republican Party . Among other racial and ethnic groups , a lower share of whites ( 44 % ) voted for Democrats in congressional races compared with blacks ( 90 % ) and Asians ( 77 % ) . ( Exit polls offer the first look at who voted in an election , a portrait that will be refined over time as more data , such as state voter files , become available . )
Hispanic real median household income was $ 45,148 last year , an increase of 6.1 % over 2014 , when median income stood at $ 42,540 , the latest economic data from the U.S. Census Bureau show . Over the same period , the real median household income increased by 4.4 % for non-Hispanic whites , 4.1 % for blacks and 3.7 % for Asians . Even so , Hispanics still trailed non-Hispanic whites ( $ 62,950 ) and Asians ( $ 77,166 ) by significant margins on this measure . These gains in income partly reflect an improved employment situation for Latinos . The Latino unemployment rate stood at 5.8 % in the third quarter of 2016 , down from 7.3 % in the third quarter of 2014 and a peak of 12.8 % in the first quarter of 2010 . Nonetheless , Latino unemployment remains above its pre-recession minimum of 5.0 % in the fourth quarter of 2006 .
Along with asking teens about their views of screen time and distractions due to the technologies in their lives , the Center also fielded a separate survey in which parents of teenagers shared their views about a subset of these issues . At a broad level , this survey finds that parents are somewhat less concerned about their own technology use than teens are about theirs . Around one-third of parents ( 36 % ) say they spend too much time on their cellphone , and 23 % say the same about their social media use . Slightly more than half of parents ( 55 % in each case ) believe they spend the right amount of time on their cellphone or on social media .2 For the most part , parents of different genders , races and ethnicities , and income levels report similar levels of concerns about their own technology use .
When it comes to potential trade-offs between the environment and the economy , most Americans say stricter environmental regulations are worth the cost , while fewer say stricter environmental regulations cost too many jobs and hurt the economy . But there are substantial differences in opinion about this issue from one state to the next that tell a different story than national surveys on the issue .
This month 's Pew Research Center report on the state of U.S. race relations found that by and large , most blacks and whites say the two races generally get along well , though whites ( 81 % ) are somewhat more likely than blacks ( 73 % ) to say so . The survey suggests that overall perceptions of black-white relations have n't changed since Pew Research last asked the question ( in November 2009 ) ; about three-quarters of both blacks and whites in that earlier survey said the two races get along very or pretty well .
The public continues to express positive views of many agencies of the federal government , even though overall trust in government is near historic lows . Large majorities express favorable views of such government agencies as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , NASA and the Defense Department . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 7 - 11 among 1,504 adults , finds that 70 % have a favorable view of the CDC , which came under criticism last fall for its handling of the outbreak of the Ebola virus . Nearly as many ( 68 % ) have a favorable view of NASA , and 65 % hold a favorable view of the Department of Defense .
The U.S. has admitted more than 70,000 Iraqi and Afghan citizens over the past decade through special immigrant visa programs available to those who worked for the U.S. government during conflicts in their home countries , and Afghans account for a big majority of them , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Department of State data . Recipients of these special visas served as interpreters or translators or performed other key jobs in Afghanistan or Iraq for the U.S. government and in doing so put themselves and their families in danger . More than two-thirds of special immigrant visas have gone to Afghans ( 48,601 ) since fiscal 2007 – the first year visas were awarded under the programs – while Iraqis have received 21,961 such visas . Totals include visas issued to the principal applicants who worked for the U.S. government , as well as their spouses and unmarried children younger than 21 . ( These special visas make up a small slice – about 1 % – of the overall number of U.S. immigrant visas awarded from fiscal years 2007 to 2017 . )
Few American homeowners were spared from the broad housing collapse a decade ago , but Generation Xers were hit particularly hard . Newer to the housing market , more likely to be buying at peak prices and taking on more mortgage debt to buy their homes , they lost more wealth than other generations . But a new Pew Research Center analysis of Federal Reserve data finds that Gen Xers are the only generation of households to recover the wealth they lost during the Great Recession . The median net worth of Gen X households had declined 38 % from 2007 ( $ 63,400 ) to 2010 ( $ 39,200 ) , while the typical wealth loss for Boomer and Silent households was not as steep ( 26 % and 14 % , respectively ) . Millennials , who were beginning to form households and accumulate wealth ( the oldest was only 26 in 2007 ) , were hit hard by the Great Recession in terms of employment and earnings , but not in terms of wealth destruction , as they had little wealth to lose . ( The Great Recession began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009 . )
Rising geostrategic competition –Global Agenda survey respondents are particularly concerned about the potential for geopolitical conflict in the next 12 - 18 months in Asia , but security worries are also high in Europe and the Middle East . Pew Research 's public opinion survey in Asia shows many are concerned that territorial disputes with China and neighboring countries could lead to a military conflict .
About half ( 49 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely . Press coverage was divided between the oil leak ( 17 % of coverage ) and Elena Kagan 's nomination to the Supreme Court ( 13 % ) ; just 5 % of the public cited Kagan 's nomination as their top story of the week .
In other news , about a quarter of Americans ( 27 % ) followed stories about volcanic ash from Iceland wafting over Europe and grounding airplanes ; 21 % say this is the story they followed most closely . Another quarter of Americans ( 26 % ) tracked stories about the safety of U.S. mines very closely , following the deadly explosion April 5 at a West Virginia coal mine . Fewer ( 9 % ) say this is the story they followed most closely . The anti-government protests on April 15 and the nuclear summit in Washington , D.C. attracted less attention : 16 % say they followed news about the protests very closely , while 14 % say the same about the nuclear summit . Just 3 % say the protest story is the one they followed most closely ; 3 % say the same about the nuclear summit .
By about four-to-one ( 80 % to 18 % ) , African Americans say the shooting in Ferguson raises important issues about race that merit discussion . By contrast , whites , by 47 % to 37 % , say the issue of race is getting more attention than it deserves .
More adults ( 31 % ) say the health care law has had a mostly negative effect on themselves and their families than say it has had a mostly positive one ( 23 % ) , while 45 % say it not has had much of an effect . The share saying the law has not has much an effect has declined over the past three years , but the balance of opinion about the law 's personal impact has remained more negative than positive .
The new survey also finds that , no matter who wins on Nov. 8 , few voters anticipate feeling excited about the outcome . Just 11 % of all registered voters say they would be excited if Trump won , 26 % say they would be relieved , while a majority says they would be disappointed ( 34 % ) or angry ( 25 % ) .
Most Catholics in the U.S. say the sex abuse scandal is one priority they want Francis to address . After the new pope was elected in March , 70 % of U.S. Catholics said that addressing the abuse scandal should be `` a top priority '' for him – more than any other potential priority listed in a Pew Research survey .
In the 2009 poll , more than three-in-four ( 77 % ) said they were dissatisfied with the way democracy is working in Hungary , the highest percentage on the survey . In the other former Eastern bloc nations , there were notable generation gaps on this question , with people under age 40 — essentially , the `` post-communist '' generation — more likely to be satisfied than older respondents . Not so , however , in Hungary , where old and young alike tended to give the current state of democracy a grim assessment .
Most Mexicans say the military and the media are having a very or somewhat good influence on the way things are going in Mexico ( 62 % and 60 % , respectively ) In contrast , only about three-in-ten say the court system ( 32 % ) and the police ( 30 % ) are having a positive influence .
Though only about one-in-ten right-leaning Swedes say that it is morally necessary to believe in God , the right-left gap persists even in Sweden : Just 2 % of those on the left say the same . Those on the right also are significantly more likely to say it is necessary to believe in God in order to be moral in Hungary , Spain , Canada , Argentina , Germany , Israel , Brazil , Australia , South Korea , the UK , the Netherlands and Sweden . When asked about the importance of religion in their lives , majorities in 23 out of 34 countries say religion is very or somewhat important to them . This includes nine-in-ten or more in Indonesia , Nigeria , Tunisia , the Philippines , Kenya , India , South Africa , Brazil and Lebanon . Majorities in several of these countries have particularly high levels of religious commitment , saying religion is very important their lives . Such attitudes are common in Indonesia ( 98 % ) , the Philippines ( 92 % ) , Tunisia ( 91 % ) , Brazil ( 84 % ) , India ( 77 % ) , Turkey ( 71 % ) , Lebanon ( 70 % ) and all African countries surveyed – 93 % in Nigeria , 92 % in Kenya and 86 % in South Africa .
Growth in mobile and social media use has sparked debates about the impact of screen time on America 's youth – and others . More than half of teens ( 54 % ) believe they spend too much time on their cellphone , while 41 % say they spend too much time on social media and about one-quarter say the same about video games , a 2018 survey found . At the same time , about half or more of teens say they have cut back on the amount of time they spend on their cellphones ( 52 % ) , and similar shares say they have tried to limit their use of social media ( 57 % ) and video games ( 58 % ) . Still , teens are not the only group who struggle with balancing their use of digital technology with other aspects of their lives . Some 36 % of parents of teens say they themselves spend too much time on their cellphone , while a similar share ( 39 % ) say they at least sometimes lose focus at work because they 're checking their cellphone .
The decline in the national dropout rate has been driven , in part , by substantially fewer Hispanic and black youth dropping out of school ( the non-Hispanic white dropout rate has not fallen as sharply ) . Although Hispanics still have the highest dropout rate among all major racial and ethnic groups , it reached a record-low of 14 % in 2013 , compared with 32 % of Hispanic 18- to 24-year-olds who were dropouts in 2000 . The decline in the size of the Hispanic dropout population has been particularly noteworthy because it 's happened at the same time that the Hispanic youth population is growing . The number of Hispanic 18- to 24-year-old dropouts peaked at 1.5 million in 2001 and fell to 889,000 by 2013 , even though the size of the Hispanic youth population has grown by more than 50 % since 2000 . The last time the Census Bureau counted fewer than 900,000 Hispanic dropouts was in 1987 . Indeed , census data show that Hispanics have reached a record high school completion rate . Among Hispanic 18- to 24-year-olds , 79 % had completed high school compared with 60 % who did so in 2000 . High school completion rates have also been rising for other racial and ethnic groups , but their rates were not at record highs in 2013 .
And when it comes to economics , there is a clear winner in the U.S.-China rivalry . When asked to name the world 's top economy , the share of Indians naming the U.S. outstrips the share naming China by a staggering 38 percentage points ( 51 % vs. 13 % ) . Reflecting Indians ' positive views of the U.S. , American power and influence was viewed as the least threatening of the international issues tested . Similarly , few Indians view tensions with Russia as a cause for concern , but a much larger share sees China as threatening to their country .
Nearly half of Republicans ( 47 % ) say it is acceptable for officials to fault the administration 's response , while slightly more ( 52 % ) find this unacceptable . Democrats overwhelmingly think it is acceptable for elected officials to criticize how the administration has addressed the outbreak ( 85 % say this ) .
Muslims make up roughly 1 % of the adult population in the U.S. , while across Europe as a whole ( including Eastern Europe ) , they are estimated to form roughly 5 % of the population , including 6 % in the UK and Germany , and nearly 9 % in France . Also , 46 % of American adults say they personally know a Muslim , compared with significant majorities in most Western European countries , including 71 % in the UK and 79 % in France .
A large majority of Americans ( 64 % ) say that problems in the world would be worse without U.S. involvement , in a separate survey conducted in January . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say that U.S. involvement in the world generally hurts more than it helps . Since 2016 , the share of Americans who say global problems would be worse without U.S. involvement has increased seven percentage points , from 57 % to 64 % . All of the change has come among NATO Foreign policy for releaseRepublicans and Republican-leaning independents : Currently , 76 % say problems would worse without U.S. involvement , up from 60 % three years ago .
But there are stark differences between political groups when it comes to whether climate change is occurring and the primary factors driving climate change . Asked to choose which of three alternatives describes their views about the earth 's temperature , 71 % of Democrats and independents who lean Democratic say the earth is warming primarily due to human activity , such as burning fossil fuels . By contrast , just 27 % of Republicans and leaning Republicans hold this view ; 30 % of this group says climate change is mostly due to natural patterns in the earth 's environment and 41 % say there is no solid evidence the earth is warming .
One factor in men 's optimism is their rosy view of what lies ahead for their children . In 27 of 44 countries men are more likely than women to think that the next generation will have a better life . The men in West Africa are the most confident about this . The least confident about the next generation 's prospects are Guatemalan men ( 75 % think children will be worse off ) Japanese women ( 71 % ) and German women ( 68 % ) . Strikingly , more than half the men in Western Europe , Eastern and Southern Africa and the Conflict Area plus more than half the women in North America , Western Europe and Eastern and Southern Africa think the future will be worse for children . The greatest disparity in views about children 's future is in Canada , where 45 % of men but only 24 % of women think children will have it better .
Turkeys are getting bigger . As recently as 1980 , the typical U.S. domesticated turkey weighed less than 19 pounds at slaughter — not much bigger than its wild cousin . But modern methods of poultry farming enable turkeys to put on more weight more quickly : The average turkey slaughtered last year weighed 29.8 pounds , more than twice the average weight 75 years ago , according to data from the National Agricultural Statistics Service . The result : Turkey farmers can produce more meat ( nearly 5.8 billion pounds this year ) from fewer birds ( a projected 242 million ) .
This week 's apparent coup d'etat in Zimbabwe may bring an end to the 37-year-long rule of President Robert Mugabe . It 's the first such seizure of power globally in three years – a reminder of how much rarer coups have become as methods of regime change . Since the end of World War II , there have been 225 successful coups ( counting the events in Zimbabwe ) in countries with populations greater than 500,000 , according to the Center for Systemic Peace , which maintains extensive datasets on various forms of armed conflict and political violence . Most coups occurred during the height of the Cold War , from the 1960s through the 1980s .
Bilingualism is measured in our National Surveys of Latinos by asking Hispanic adults to self-assess their language abilities . Respondents rated their ability to carry on a conversation in Spanish and how well they can read a book or newspaper written in Spanish . The same questions are posed about their English-speaking ability . Bilingualism is linked to age . Some 42 % of Hispanics ages 18 to 29 are bilingual . That share falls to about a third among Hispanics ages 30 to 49 and ages 50 to 64 , but rises again , to 40 % , among those ages 65 and older .
Yet the public has mixed impressions of the campaign so far . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) describe the presidential campaign as interesting – far more than did so before the first primary contests in the 2012 and 2008 campaigns ( 36 % and 37 % , respectively ) . About half ( 48 % ) say the campaign is informative , which is identical to the share that described the campaign as informative in January 2012 . As during prior campaigns , many Americans view the current contest as `` too negative '' ( 54 % describe the campaign this way ) and `` too long '' ( 50 % ) .
About a third of Americans ( 35 % ) say they read scripture at least once a week , while 45 % seldom or never read scripture , according to 2014 data from our Religious Landscape Study . Frequency of reading scripture differs widely among religious groups . Majorities of Jehovah 's Witnesses ( 88 % ) , Mormons ( 77 % ) , evangelical Protestants ( 63 % ) and members of historically black Protestant churches ( 61 % ) say they read scripture at least once a week . By contrast , 65 % of Jews say they seldom or never read scripture .
The results are clear on three of these aspects . Medians of around seven-in-ten say their countries have become more diverse and that gender equality has increased over the past 20 years . And roughly six-in-ten across the countries surveyed say that family ties have weakened . On the importance of religion , there is more variation by country . Overall , a median of 37 % say that religion plays a less important role in their countries than it did 20 years ago , while 27 % say it plays a more important role .
Americans say they followed news about the new health care law more closely than any other major story last week , but many also kept a close watch on the economy and the ash-spewing volcano in Iceland that disrupted international air travel . Though media coverage of the health care debate has dropped significantly since President Obama signed the legislation into law on March 23 , Americans continue to say this is the story they are following most closely ( 33 % ) , according to the latest News Interest Index Survey conducted April 16 - 19 among 1,008 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . This likely reflects the perceived importance of this issue to the general public . Last week , the story accounted for 4 % of the newshole About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they followed news about the volcano spreading ash over Europe more closely than any other story , while 18 % say the economy was the story they followed most closely . According to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , news about the economic crisis made up 16 % of the newshole , news about the volcano accounted for 7 % and news about U.S. nuclear weapons policies and the nuclear summit in Washington accounted for another 7 % . A smaller percentage say they followed news about the anti-government protests on April 15 , tax filing day , more closely than any other story ( 3 % ) , while 16 % say they followed these stories very closely . Still , awareness of the Tea Party movement , the driving force behind the protests , has increased over the past month .
Among adults who have never been married but say they are open to marrying in the future , about six-in-ten ( 59 % ) say that a major reason they are not married is that they have n't found the right person . An additional 13 % say this is a minor reason they are not married today . Majorities across a range of demographic groups cite this as a major reason why they are not married . About four-in-ten never-married adults ( 41 % ) who say they may want to marry in the future say that not being financially stable is a major reason they are not currently married , and 28 % point to this as a minor reason . Fewer – but still a substantial share – say that a major ( 24 % ) or minor ( 30 % ) reason they are not married is that they are n't ready to settle down .
When asked about the appropriate role of government in regulating major technology companies , around half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) believe these companies should be regulated more than they are now . Around one-in-ten ( 9 % ) feel they should be regulated less than they are now , while 38 % say their current level of regulation is appropriate . Although Republicans are more likely than Democrats to see an anti-conservative bias among major technology companies , this attitude does not translate into a broader desire by Republicans for increased regulation of these companies . Just over half ( 57 % ) of Democrats and Democratic leaners think major technology companies should be regulated more heavily than they are now , but that share falls to 44 % among Republicans and Republican leaners . Indeed , 12 % of Republicans say these companies should be regulated less than they are currently . That view is shared by 7 % of Democrats .
A 55 % majority of Americans say they either strongly support or somewhat support the Black Lives Matter movement , while 34 % oppose the movement . Overall opinions about the Black Lives Matter movement are more deeply divided along partisan lines than racial lines . Eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 80 % ) support Black Lives Matter , compared with just 23 % of Republicans and Republican leaners . Blacks are 30 percentage points more likely than whites ( 82 % vs. 52 % ) to support Black Lives Matter . However , there is substantial gap between races in strength of support : 60 % of blacks strongly support the movement , compared with 23 % of whites .
In the 1990s , the rate of violent crimes plummeted by more than half nationwide . Public perceptions tracked right along , with the share saying there was more crime in the U.S. over the past year falling from 87 % in 1993 to just 41 % by 2001 . In the new century , however , there 's been a disconnect . A majority of Americans ( 63 % ) said in a Gallup survey last year that crime was on the rise , despite crime statistics holding near 20-year lows .
Teens are often much more enthusiastic authors and readers of blogs than their adult counterparts . Teen bloggers , led by older girls , are a major part of this tech-savvy cohort . Teen bloggers are more fervent internet users than non-bloggers and have more experience with almost every online activity in the survey . Read more in Amanda Lenhart and Mary Madden 's 2005 report , Teen Content Creators and Consumers .
Fewer than four-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners say the Republican Party is doing a good job representing their views on the issues of government spending ( 35 % ) , illegal immigration ( 34 % ) and same-sex marriage ( 29 % ) . On all three issues , majorities of Republicans say their party is not doing a good job representing their views . And there is little difference in these ratings between conservative Republicans and moderate and liberal Republicans .
During the week of the Pennsylvania primary , the national media focused heavily on the presidential campaign . News of the campaign eclipsed most other stories – as the media devoted 44 % of its overall coverage to the presidential race , up from 31 % the previous week . Public interest ticked up only modestly : 34 % followed campaign news very closely up from 29 % the previous week . One-in-four listed the campaign as the single news story they followed more closely than any other , placing it on par with rising gas prices . The gap between interest in campaign news and coverage of the campaign is larger than it has been in recent weeks .
According to our data , the Martin case emerged as the No . 1 story in the mainstream press the week of March19 - 25 , 2012—following the release of Zimmerman 's 911 calls . That week , it accounted for 19 % of the newshole , making it the first story in 2012 to generate more coverage in a single week than the presidential campaign . ( The term newshole refers to the space devoted to each subject in print and online and time on radio and TV . ) At that point , about one-third of Americans ( 35 % ) said they were following news about the case very closely , making it one of the top stories in 2012 in terms of the level of public attention .
The survey finds that the public continues to have a mixed view of the Supreme Court 's ideology , with a plurality ( 38 % ) continuing to say they perceive the court to be `` middle of the road . '' About as many call the Supreme Court liberal ( 26 % ) as say it is conservative ( 28 % ) . This balance of opinion regarding the court 's ideological leanings is virtually unchanged since last measured in July 2014 .
Overall , 46 % of registered voters say that life in America today is worse than it was 50 years ago `` for people like them , '' while 34 % say life is better and 14 % think it is about the same . Republican and Republican-leaning voters are more than twice as likely as Democratic voters to say life in this country has gotten worse over the past half-century for people like them ( 66 % to 28 % ) . Among GOP voters , fully 75 % of those who support Donald Trump for the Republican presidential nomination say life for people like them has gotten worse , compared with 63 % of Ted Cruz supporters and 54 % of those who back John Kasich . While Democratic voters generally express more positive views of how life in the U.S. has changed over the past 50 years , those who favor Bernie Sanders are more negative ( 34 % say life has gotten worse ) than those who support Hillary Clinton ( 22 % ) .
Young adults – those younger than 35 – continue to be the most likely of all age groups to rent . In 2016 , 65 % of households headed by people younger than 35 were renting , up from 57 % in 2006 . Rental rates have also risen notably among those ages 35 to 44 . In 2016 , about four-in-ten ( 41 % ) households headed by someone in this age range were renting , up from 31 % in 2006 .
Economic System Still Seen at Risk . Most Americans continue to think the U.S. economic system is still vulnerable to the type of crisis that devastated the economy in the fall of 2008 . Currently , 63 % say the economic system is no more secure today than it was before the 2008 financial crisis , while only about a third of Americans ( 34 % ) say it is more secure . These attitudes are virtually unchanged from two years ago .
For the first time this year , a majority of registered voters who support Romney ( 57 % ) now think of their vote as a vote for Mitt Romney , not as a vote against Barack Obama . As recently as September , just over half of Romney voters ( 52 % ) said their main motivation was their opposition to Obama .
Though they may be doing their best not to think about it during this last full month of summer , some 55 million children and teens — and more than 20 million college students — are going to be heading back to school in the coming weeks . Taken together , that means about 77 million new and returning students .
The American family is changing . After decades of declining marriage rates , the share of American adults who have never been married is at an historic high . Two-parent households are on the decline in the U.S. , while divorce , remarriage and cohabitation are on the rise . About one-in-six American kids now live in a blended family . And the roles of mothers and fathers are converging , due in part to the rise of breadwinner moms . Dads are doing more housework and child care , while moms are doing more paid work outside the home . Americans are conflicted about some aspects of this change : While nearly half of two-parent households have a mom and dad who both work full time , 51 % of Americans say children are better off with a mother at home .
As global competition between the U.S. and China intensifies , people in both countries view one another warily . Today , 45 % of Chinese see U.S. power and influence as posing a major threat to their country , up from 39 % in 2013 . In America , more than half of adults ( 55 % ) have an unfavorable view of China and just 37 % give China a favorable rating . While half of Chinese see the U.S. favorably , 52 % see the U.S. as trying to prevent China from becoming as powerful .
Americans – regardless of whether they are in a relationship – were asked in the survey about their views about some issues related to technology and relationships . For example , they weighed in on the acceptability of looking through a significant other 's phone without that person 's knowledge . Seven-in-ten U.S. adults say it is rarely ( 28 % ) or never ( 42 % ) acceptable to look through a significant other 's cellphone without their knowledge . Smaller shares – about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) – view this behavior as at least sometimes acceptable .
It 's a straightforward question , but the answers yielded some interesting results . One-in-six ( 16 % ) of those who say they `` definitely voted '' in the 2014 midterm election have no record of voting in commercially available national voter files , according to a Pew Research Center analysis .
Moreover , a plurality of Indians characterize Lashkar-e-Taiba , the group widely blamed for the Mumbai attacks , as the greatest threat facing their country . One-third name Pakistan as the greatest threat – and overwhelmingly Indians believe there is a link between these two threats : 58 % say the Pakistani government actively supports extremist groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba , while another 21 % think it at least tolerates them . And if these groups were to conduct another terrorist attack against India , most would support military action against them in Pakistan .
Puerto Rico 's population has grown steadily since at least the 1700s , and it increased each decade between 1910 ( 1.1 million ) to 2000 ( 3.8 million ) . The population grew even during the Great Migration that occurred after World War II and into the 1960s , when hundreds of thousands left the island for the mainland .
The survey finds that Barack Obama 's overall job rating , which was more positive than negative in both May and June , is now evenly divided : 46 % approve of his job performance while 46 % disapprove .
Adults who live in urban or suburban communities have shown consistently higher levels of internet adoption , compared with rural residents . This gap has persisted even as internet adoption has risen in all three types of communities . In 2000 , 56 % of suburban residents , 53 % of urban residents , and 42 % of rural residents were internet users . Today those figures stand at 85 % , 85 % , and 78 % respectively . Rural communities tend to have a higher proportion of residents who are older , lower-income , and have lower levels of educational attainment – additional factors associated with lower levels of internet adoption .
Two-thirds of Americans say the use of marijuana should be legal , reflecting a steady increase over the past decade , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The share of U.S. adults who oppose legalization has fallen from 52 % in 2010 to 32 % today . As in the past , there are wide partisan and generational differences in views of marijuana legalization . Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 78 % ) say marijuana use should be legal . Republicans and Republican leaners are less supportive , with 55 % in favor of legalization and 44 % opposed .
Survey research shows that in recent years support for the free-market system has been on the rise in Eastern Europe , especially in countries such as Poland that have enjoyed impressive economic growth . However , compared with other regions of the world — and in particular , compared with their Western European counterparts — Eastern Europeans embrace free markets somewhat tepidly . A 47-nation 2007 Pew Global Attitudes survey found that , among the seven major world regions included in the study , support for free markets was lowest in Eastern Europe and Latin America . Across the six Eastern European countries surveyed — Bulgaria , Czech Republic , Poland , Russia , Slovakia and Ukraine — a median of 56 % agreed with the statement `` Most people are better off in a free market economy , even though some people are rich and some are poor . ''
About one-in-seven U.S. adults ( 15 % ) say they have ever used a mail-in DNA testing service from a company such as AncestryDNA or 23andMe , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Most of them say they did so to learn more about their family origins , and a notable share say the results surprised them . When asked about their reasons for using a mail-in DNA testing service , the vast majority of those who have done so ( 87 % ) say they wanted to learn more about where their family came from . About a third say they did so to get information about their health or family medical history ( 36 % ) and to connect with relatives they might have but did n't know about ( also 36 % ) .
Those who support different political parties also differed in their opinions of Iran . In the U.S. , 82 % of Republicans and those who lean toward the GOP viewed Iran negatively , compared with seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners . Despite shifts in U.S.- Iran relations since 2010 , divides in assessments of Iran between parties have been largely stable over this time period .
By this measure , Americans place less importance on religion in their lives than do people in a number of countries in Africa , the Middle East and Asia . For example , nearly universal shares of Ethiopians ( 98 % ) , Senegalese ( 97 % ) and Indonesians ( 95 % ) say religion is very important , as do eight-in-ten or more Nigerians ( 88 % ) , Filipinos ( 87 % ) and Indians ( 80 % ) .
About one quarter ( 24 % ) say they very closely followed news about a Supreme Court decision that protects the free speech rights of protestors at military funerals . Interest was greater than in October , when 18 % said they were very closely following the case about a Baptist Church that had organized anti-gay protests at the funerals of U.S. soldiers . The court 's ruling last week was the most closely followed story for 6 % of the public and received 2 % of coverage . The debate in Washington over the federal budget deficit was the most closely followed story for 5 % . Last week , budget news centered on Congress approving a plan to temporarily avoid a government shutdown . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say they followed this news very closely . News about the budget debate accounted for 4 % of coverage . More Republicans ( 33 % ) say they followed the budget debate very closely than either Democrats or independents ( 24 % each ) . Reports that two U.S. airmen were shot and killed by a gunman outside the airport in Frankfurt , Germany was the most closely followed story for 3 % of the public . Just 16 % tracked this story very closely . This news accounted for about 1 % of the newshole .
Since 2010 , there has been considerable population change in the region due to war in Iraq and Syria , hostilities in other countries and related migration , but there is little reliable data to measure overall regional shifts in the last few years . Many Christians have left Iraq in recent years , though many stayed in the Middle East , fleeing to neighboring countries such as Jordan . Most of the Christians in the Middle East ( 65 % ) are Orthodox Christians , including members of the Coptic Orthodox , Greek Orthodox and Syriac Orthodox churches . Catholics are a minority among the overall Christian population in the Middle East ( 27 % ) , with slightly more than 2 million people . The rest of the Christians in the region are Protestant ( 7 % ) . Egypt has the largest Christian population in the Middle East , according to Pew Research estimates , which are based on Egyptian censuses . Leaders of the Coptic Orthodox Church in Egypt claim a much higher number of Christians in Egypt than are seen in Egypt 's census .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted March 31-April 21 among 1,521 adults reached on landlines and cell phones , also finds public opinion about abortion more closely divided than it has been in several years . Currently , 46 % say abortion should be legal in most cases ( 28 % ) or all cases ( 18 % ) ; 44 % believe that abortion should be illegal in most ( 28 % ) or all cases ( 16 % ) . Since the mid-1990s , majorities have consistently favored legal abortion , with the exception of an August 2001 survey by ABC News/Washington Post .
Young people are considerably more likely than older Americans to describe their political views as liberal . About the same number of those younger than age 30 say they are liberal ( 27 % ) as say they are conservative ( 30 % ) . The ideological gap is much wider among older Americans ; 50 to 64 year-olds are more than twice as likely to describe themselves as conservative ( 41 % ) than as liberal ( 19 % ) , and those age 65 and older are three times more likely to say they are conservative ( 45 % vs. 15 % liberal ) .
Overall , a global median of 46 % say they are satisfied with the way democracy is working in their country , while 52 % are not . Satisfaction is most common in Asia-Pacific and sub-Saharan Africa , and least common in Latin America . In Europe , opinions vary widely across nations . More than seven-in-ten are happy with their democracy in Sweden , the Netherlands and Germany . But two-thirds or more are unhappy in Italy , Spain and Greece – all southern European nations that have struggled economically over the past decade .
About two-thirds of Americans say the country 's openness to people from around the world is `` essential to who we are as a nation . '' Just 29 % say that if America is too open to people from other countries , `` we risk losing our identity as a nation , '' according to a summer 2017 survey . Eight-in-ten Millennials say America 's openness is key to the nation 's identity , compared with 68 % of Gen Xers , 61 % of Boomers and 54 % of Silents . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say that America 's openness is essential to the country 's identity ( 84 % vs. 47 % ) .
In November 2011 , a majority ( 56 % ) said that the U.S. had mostly achieved its goals in Iraq , but last March opinion was evenly split ( 46 % mostly succeeded , 43 % mostly failed ) . Today , just 37 % believe the U.S. has mostly succeeded in achieving its goals in Iraq , a 19-point decline since 2011 .
By a wide margin , Americans say they favor raising the federal minimum wage to $ 15 an hour . But there is a deep partisan divide in views of this proposed policy – a version of which recently passed the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives , though it is unlikely to be taken up by the GOP-controlled Senate . Two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) support raising the minimum wage to $ 15 an hour , including 41 % who say they strongly favor such an increase , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted this spring . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are largely united in backing a $ 15 an hour federal minimum wage : 86 % favor this , including nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) who say they strongly support it . Republican opinion on this issue is more divided , but a majority of Republicans and Republican leaners – 57 % – oppose raising the minimum wage to $ 15 an hour , including nearly three-in-ten ( 29 % ) who say they are strongly against it .
Women in the U.S. are substantially more likely than men to say gender discrimination is a major problem in the technology industry , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in July and August . The new survey finds that roughly three-quarters of Americans ( 73 % ) say discrimination against women is a problem in the tech industry , with 37 % citing it as a major problem and an equal share citing it as a minor one . But 44 % of women say it is a major problem , compared with just 29 % of men . And roughly a third of men ( 32 % ) say discrimination against women is not a problem , compared with 17 % of women .
The average price of regular gasoline was $ 3.2517 a gallon as of Nov. 22 , according to the latest survey by market-research firm Lundberg Survey . While that 's up 3.46 cents over the previous two weeks , a year ago this time a gallon of regular cost on average about $ 3.47 . The Lundberg data , which come from a survey of about 2,500 filling stations across the lower 48 states , track closely with the Energy Information Administration 's weekly pump-price survey . Both surveys found that gas prices have declined steadily since Labor Day . Pump prices are the result of several interacting , and not always predictable , factors , among them crude-oil prices , seasonal reformulations , refinery capacity in different regions and driver demand . This Thanksgiving 's gas prices are the lowest since 2010 , when the national average price for a gallon of regular was $ 2.876 , according to the EIA . As of Nov. 18 , according to the EIA , gas was most expensive on the West Coast ( $ 3.467 for a gallon of regular ) and cheapest on the Gulf Coast ( $ 3.004 for a gallon of regular ) . ( The EIA will update its data later today at 5 p.m. Eastern time . )
A survey earlier this month , before the IRS reports surfaced , found an unusual level of public agreement that the tax system needs sweeping changes . Overall , 72 % said the nation 's tax system either needs major changes ( 40 % ) or to be completely rebuilt ( 32 % ) . Just 26 % said the system works pretty well or needs minor changes . There 's a clear trend , too . The percentage saying the tax system needs at least major changes has risen 26 points since 2005 , while the percentage saying it works pretty well has fallen 24 points . Most striking is that the rise among those who think the system needs major fixing has occurred across nearly all partisan and demographic groups .
For the first time in more than two decades of Pew Research Center surveys , there is more support for gun rights than gun control . Currently , 52 % say it is more important to protect the right of Americans to own guns , while 46 % say it is more important to control gun ownership .
Americans have mixed views about genetically modified foods ( GMOs ) and their implications for society . About half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) think GMOs are worse for people 's health than foods with no genetically modified ingredients , while 41 % say GM foods have a neutral effect on health . Just 7 % say they are better for health than other foods . As Americans think about the effects of GMOs , about three-quarters ( 74 % ) say it is at least fairly likely that GM foods will increase the global food supply . And 62 % say GM foods are very or fairly likely to lead to more affordably priced food .
For those ages 50 and older , television remains the dominant source for news . About three-quarters ( 77 % ) of those 50 - 64 say television is a main source for news , compared with 38 % who cite the internet . For those ages 65 and older , 84 % turn to television for most of their news , 54 % rely on newspapers and just 18 % say the internet is a top news source . For both those ages 50 - 64 and 65 and older , there has been no significant increase in the percentages citing the internet as a main source for news since 2011 .
Of the 55 representatives who 've chosen not to seek re-election to the House this November , 20 are running for other offices instead – 11 for U.S. Senate and nine for governor of their state . ( One representative , Maryland Democrat John Delaney , says he 'll run for president in 2020 , but that 's a long way off so for now we 're counting him as a straight retirement . ) The 35 retirements so far this year are the most since 1996 , when the same number of House members left without seeking another office .
Clinton received a lower share of the vote among young voters ( ages 18 - 29 ) than Obama received in 2012 or 2008 . Young adults preferred Clinton over Trump by a wide 55 % -37 % margin ; by comparison , Obama had a 60 % -36 % advantage over Romney in 2012 and a 66 % -32 % advantage over McCain in 2008 .
While the media provided heavy coverage of the congressional elections last week , the public continued to track news about the nation 's struggling economy more closely than news about the midterm vote . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say they followed news about the economy very closely last week , while 30 % say they followed news about the elections very closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey of 1,006 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . By another measure , 24 % say they followed news about the economy more closely than any other major story ; 20 % say they followed news about the elections most closely .
Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say they have given a lot of consideration to the candidates . Currently , 63 % of Republican and Republican-leaning voters say they have thought a lot about the presidential candidates , compared with 51 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters .
Many Americans expect certain professions to be dominated by automation in their lifetime – but few see their own jobs at risk . Roughly three-quarters of Americans think it 's realistic that robots and computers might one day do many jobs currently done by humans , and sizable majorities expect jobs such as fast food workers and insurance claims processors to be performed by machines within their lifetimes . Yet just 30 % of American workers expect their own jobs or professions to become automated .
Nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) newsroom employees in the newspaper , broadcasting and internet publishing industries – including reporters , editors , photographers and videographers – have at least a college degree , according to the analysis of 2012 - 2016 American Community Survey data . Among employees in all other occupations and industries , only about a third ( 36 % ) have graduated from college . Very few newsroom employees have a high school education or less ( 4 % ) , compared with a third of all other workers .
The public paid less attention to the hostage situation in Algeria ( 17 % very closely ) . And two sports-related controversies , Lance Armstrong admitting he used performance-enhancing drugs and an alleged hoax involving Notre Dame football player Manti Te'o and false claims about his deceased girlfriend , garnered little public attention : just 11 % followed Armstrong news very closely and 10 % followed news about Manti Te'o very closely . In the first week of January , the resolution to the fiscal cliff topped the public 's news agenda with 38 % saying they followed that story very closely . Economic news ( 34 % very closely ) and the debate over gun control ( 34 % very closely ) also received significant public attention in the Jan. 3 - 6 survey .
As Pakistani forces continue to battle extremist groups within the country , nearly all Pakistanis describe terrorism as a very big problem . However , they have grown markedly less concerned that extremists might take control of the country . Last year , at a time when the Pakistani military was taking action against Taliban forces in the Swat Valley within 100 miles of the nation 's capital , 69 % were very or somewhat worried about extremist groups taking control of Pakistan . Today , just 51 % express concern about an extremist takeover .
In the mid-1990s , as the stock market was beginning its metoric rise , the month-to-month changes in the Dow Jones Industrial Average had little connection to shifts in consumer sentiment , as measured in monthly surveys conducted by the University of Michigan . From 1992 to 1994 , and again from 1995 to 1997 , changes in consumer confidence were virtually unrelated to movement of the Dow ( see chart ) . But as the stock market boom peaked at decade 's end ( 1998 - 2000 ) , the relationship between fluctuations in the stock market and consumer attitudes became much more closely linked . Since 1998 , roughly 20 % of the change in consumer confidence – as measured on a monthly basis by the University of Michigan – can be attributed to movement in the stock market . Such a linkage had only been apparent once before , at the height of the so-called ‘ Reagan recovery ' ( 1983 - 85 ) .
A majority of Americans favor the death penalty for those convicted of murder , but support for the death penalty is as low as it has been in the past 40 years . A new Pew Research Center survey finds 56 % favor the death penalty for people convicted of murder , while 38 % are opposed . The share supporting the death penalty has declined six percentage points , from 62 % , since 2011 . Throughout much of the 1980s and 90s , support for the death penalty often surpassed 70 % . In a 1996 survey , 78 % favored the death penalty , while just 18 % were opposed .
Democrats have consistently paid closer attention to campaign news than have Republicans . On average interest among Democrats has exceeded interest among Republicans by 12 percentage points . During the week of April 2 , when candidates ' first quarter fundraising totals dominated campaign news , 66 % of Democrats were paying very or fairly close attention to the campaign compared to 58 % of Republicans . Independents have been slightly less attentive to the campaign than Democrats or Republicans throughout most of the year . Last week , 46 % of Independents were closely following campaign news .
Economic opportunity is one of the primary drivers for moving to the U.S. mainland , according to Census Bureau data . Among island-born Puerto Ricans who moved to the mainland , 40 % said they left mainly for job-related reasons , while 39 % cited family-related reasons .
About two-thirds ( 64 % ) believe that the U.S. government probably has collected data about their own phone calls , emails or online communications . This perception is especially prevalent among IRE journalists who cover national security , foreign affairs or the federal government . Fully 71 % of this group say the government has likely collected this data . And eight-in-ten of all journalists surveyed express the belief that being a journalist increases the likelihood that their data will be collected by the U.S. government .
Still , the U.S. has a relatively strong reputation for respecting personal freedoms compared with the other major nations tested on the survey . A median of 58 % believe the American government respects individual liberties , while 56 % say this about France , 36 % about China , and only 28 % say it about the Russian government .
Concerns Over Closing Guantanamo . Obama has long sought the closure of the U.S. prison holding terrorist suspects at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba . More Americans think closing the prison in the next few years is a bad idea ( 49 % ) than say it is a good idea ( 42 % ) . Republicans overwhelmingly say that closing the prison is a bad idea ( 80 % ) , while 64 % of Democrats think it 's a good idea .
A new report released today by the Pew Research Center shows how the values Americans bring to parenting are strongly linked to their own ideological leanings . But aside from ideology , the survey finds widespread agreement among parents over the traits that children should be taught . Fully 94 % of parents say it is important to teach children responsibility , while nearly as many ( 92 % ) say the same about hard work . Helpfulness , good manners and independence also are widely viewed as important for children to learn , according to the survey . When parents were asked which traits they considered to be `` most important '' to teach children , the same ones topped the list , with one exception — while only 56 % of parents say passing on religious faith is important , fully 31 % say this is one of the most important things to teach children . That makes teaching religious faith the third most important trait , behind responsibility and hard work .
These are the principal findings of the Pew Research Center 's biennial survey of the national news audience , which documents the rapid emergence of the Internet as a news source , as well as a significant decline in regular viewership of broadcast television news . Fully one-in-three Americans now go online for news at least once a week , compared to 20 % in 1998 . And 15 % say they receive daily reports from the Internet , up from 6 % two years ago . At the same time , regular viewership of network news has fallen from 38 % to 30 % over this period , while local news viewership has fallen from 64 % to 56 % .
The audience for terrestrial radio remains steady and high : In 2018 , 89 % of Americans ages 12 or older listened to terrestrial radio in a given week , according to Nielsen Media Research data published by the Radio Advertising Bureau , a figure that has changed little since 2009 .
More than four-in-ten ( 44 % ) expect relations between Republicans and Democrats in Washington will get worse in the coming year . In 2014 , after the GOP won full control of Congress , 34 % said partisan relations would worsen and in 2006 , after Democrats won majorities in the House and Senate , just 20 % expressed this view .
Americans ' ratings of the government 's efforts to reduce the threat of terrorism are now lower than at any point since the September 2001 terrorist attacks . For the first time , more now say the government is doing not too well or not at all well in reducing the threat of terrorism ( 52 % ) than say the government is doing either very or fairly well ( 46 % ) . Positive ratings have fallen 26 points since January ( when 72 % said very/fairly well ) . Compared to early 2015 , assessments of government efforts to combat terrorism are more negative across the political spectrum . Democrats are now the only partisan group in which a majority ( 64 % ) say the government is doing at least fairly well ( down from 85 % in January ) . Independents ' positive ratings have dropped 25 points , from 69 % to 44 % . And just 27 % of Republicans now say the government is doing very or fairly well reducing the terrorist threat , down from 63 % at the beginning of the year .
About two-thirds of Hispanic registered voters ( 68 % ) disapprove of the job Trump is doing as president , including 51 % who disapprove very strongly . The 30 % of Hispanic voters who approve of Trump includes 23 % who approve strongly . As with the U.S. public overall , views of Trump 's job performance among Latino registered voters are tied to partisanship – 93 % of Democrats disapprove of Trump 's job performance , with 73 % disapproving very strongly . Meanwhile , among Republicans , 75 % approve of Trump 's job performance , with 58 % approving very strongly .
As President Obama considers executive action to delay the deportation of millions of undocumented immigrants , the public 's priorities for U.S. immigration policy have shifted , with more people favoring a focus on better border security and tougher enforcement of immigration laws . The national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted August 20 - 24 among 1,501 adults , finds that 33 % say the priority should be on better border security and tougher enforcement of immigration laws , while 23 % prioritize creating a way for people in the U.S. illegally to become citizens if they meet certain conditions . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say both should be given equal priority . These priorities have changed since Feb. 2013 , early in Obama 's second term . The share saying that both approaches should be given equal priority has fallen from 47 % to 41 % . Over the same period , the percentage prioritizing enhanced border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws has risen eight points , from 25 % to 33 % . There has been little change in the percentage saying the priority should be creating a path to citizenship for people in the U.S. illegally ( 25 % in Feb. 2013 , 23 % today ) . Among independents , support for giving equal priority to a path to citizenship for those in the U.S. illegally and better border security and tougher enforcement of immigration laws has slipped since Feb. 2013 ( from 47 % to 41 % ) , while support for better border security and tougher law enforcement alone has increased , from 25 % to 33 % .
Throughout the 2014 campaign , voters have expressed high levels of anti-incumbent sentiment . Today , about two-thirds ( 68 % ) say they do not want most members of Congress reelected this year , while just 23 % would like most representatives to win reelection . And roughly a third ( 35 % ) say they would not like to see their own representative reelected .
In the latest installment of the Pew Research Center 's News IQ Quiz , just 32 % know that the Senate passed its version of the legislation without a single Republican vote . And , in what proved to be the most difficult question on the quiz , only about a quarter ( 26 % ) knows that it takes 60 votes to break a filibuster in the Senate and force a vote on a bill . The survey was conducted before Massachusetts Republican Scott Brown won a special election to the Senate on Jan. 19 ; Brown 's election means Senate Democrats can no longer count on a 60-vote majority once he takes office . About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) correctly identify China as the foreign country holding the most U.S. government debt . Nearly as many ( 57 % ) know that the United States imports two-thirds of the oil it consumes . As was the case in previous knowledge surveys , a majority ( 55 % ) knows the current unemployment rate is about 10 % . However , far fewer ( 36 % ) correctly estimate the current level of the Dow Jones Industrial Average at about 10,000 points . The survey finds that while the public struggled with most of the political questions on the survey , most Americans ( 56 % ) know that there currently is more than one woman serving on the Supreme Court . Notably , this is the only question on the quiz where as many women as men answer correctly ; men scored significantly better on other questions .
As Australia prepares for its July 2 national elections , a new poll shows robust support for Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull 's handling of international affairs . This includes majority support for his dealings with the U.S. and China . However , only four-in-ten Australians approve of their leader 's handling of the refugee issue , while roughly a third give him positive marks on climate change .
In general , Republicans and Democrats ascribe positive traits to their own party , while holding negative views of the opposing party . For example , about two-thirds of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 66 % ) say their party has high ethical standards , while about the same share of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 64 % ) say the same about the GOP . Comparable shares in each party ( 24 % of Democrats , 21 % of Republicans ) say the opposing party has high ethical standards .
Nearly nine-in-ten Americans today are online , up from about half in the early 2000s . Pew Research Center has chronicled this trend and others through more than 15 years of surveys on internet and technology use . On Thursday , we released a new set of fact sheets that will be updated as we collect new data and can serve as a one-stop shop for anyone looking for information on key trends in digital technology .
The survey finds continuing differences between the public and influentials over the extent to which the nation 's foreign policy should serve domestic objectives . Fully 84 % of the public views the protection of American jobs as a top long-term foreign policy priority ; far fewer opinion leaders see this as an important goal . In addition , the public remains much more skeptical than opinion leaders about the benefits of international free trade agreements . Just 44 % of Americans see agreements like NAFTA as good for the country ; by contrast , solid majorities in all but one group ( religious leaders ) think such pacts have a positive impact .
Spanish use at home is more widespread—and has been more stable—among immigrant Hispanics than it has been among U.S.-born Hispanics . Fully 95 % of foreign-born Hispanics spoke Spanish at home in 2013 , a share little changed since 1980 , when 93 % of foreign-born Hispanics spoke Spanish at home . But among the U.S. born , this share has declined from 67 % in 1980 to 60 % in 2013 .
A 2016 report from the National Academies of Sciences , Engineering and Medicine highlighted consensus among scientific experts that GM foods were safe . Most Americans perceive considerable disagreement in the scientific community , however . Only a minority of Americans says that almost all ( 14 % ) or more than half ( 28 % ) of scientists agree that GM foods are safe to eat . Public trust in information about the health risks and benefits of GM foods from scientists is higher than it is for several other groups : food industry leaders , the news media and elected officials . But only a minority of the public ( 35 % ) says they trust scientists a lot to give full and accurate information about the health effects of GM foods , while 43 % trust scientists `` some . '' Trust in information from small farm owners is similar , with 29 % saying they trust small farm owners a lot and 49 % saying they trust small farm owners some to give full and accurate information on the health effects of GM foods .
Americans ' attitudes toward an ideal marriage have changed dramatically over the past several decades . The share of the public that favors a marriage in which husband and wife both work and take care of the house and children is up from 48 % in 1977 to 62 % in 2010 . During the same period , the share that prefers the model of the breadwinner husband and homemaker wife is down from 43 % to 30 % . Young adults are often at the forefront of changing social norms . Adults younger than 30 are most likely to favor a dual-income marriage model ( 72 % ) , over the breadwinner husband-homemaker wife model ( 22 % ) . This is even more true for young women , who are more likely than young men to prefer dual-income marriage ( 78 % vs. 67 % ) . Young adults are also more positive about the impact on families of increasing numbers of women entering the workforce .
Sanders supporters stand out for civil liberties concerns . Half of Americans say their bigger concern about government anti-terrorism policies is that they have not gone far enough to adequately protect the country ; 35 % are more concerned that they have gone too far in restricting civil liberties . Large majorities of Republican voters , regardless of their primary preference , say their bigger concern is that anti-terror policies have not gone far enough to protect the country . On the Democratic side , supporters of the two candidates differ in their views . Among Sanders supporters , 51 % say their bigger concern is that U.S. policies have gone too far in restricting civil liberties , while 33 % say they have not gone far enough in protecting the U.S. Opinion among Clinton supporters is reversed ( 51 % not gone far enough , 35 % too far ) .
More than four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 43 % ) say the Trump administration has helped evangelical Christians , though a similar share ( 44 % ) say the administration has had no effect on this group . Just 11 % of Americans say the Trump administration has hurt evangelical Christians .
And although 61 % of Germans have a favorable view of the UN , they share some skepticism about the organization 's care for ordinary citizens and its handling of climate change . A majority of Germans say the UN does not care about the needs of ordinary people , and 47 % think it does not promote action on climate change , an issue that ranks as Germany 's top international concern .
There also are demographic differences in concerns over language that may offend others . About two-thirds of men ( 68 % ) say too many people are easily offended by language today , compared with only about half ( 51 % ) of women . Among blacks , 67 % say people should be more careful with language to avoid offending people of different backgrounds , while just 30 % say too many people are easily offended by language these days . Among whites , opinions are reversed : 67 % say too many are easily offended , compared with 32 % who think more care should be taken to not offend others .
And Americans overall do n't think Trump is particularly religious : A majority say Trump is `` not too '' ( 23 % ) or `` not at all '' ( 40 % ) religious , while 28 % say he 's `` somewhat '' religious and only 7 % say he 's `` very religious , '' according to a new Pew Research Center survey . How Americans see these politicians varies by religion and by race : White evangelical Protestants are the only religious group with a majority who say that Trump is at least somewhat religious ( 64 % ) , although even among white evangelicals , just 12 % say Trump is very religious . The share who describe Trump as at least somewhat religious also is relatively large among white Protestants who are not evangelical ( 45 % ) and white Catholics ( 44 % ) .
However , the higher-income households have not abandoned traditional media altogether ; they also turn to print and television , especially for local news . Asked about various platforms where they might get the news on a typical day , 76 % o those from higher-income households watch local and national news shows on television , 51 % of this higher-income group said they get local news from a print version of a newspaper , and 22 % read a print version of a newspaper for national news .
Currently , 46 % of the public approves of Obama 's job performance while 43 % disapprove . In November , 46 % approved and 46 % disapproved . From July through early October his job ratings were more negative than positive . Since August , there has been a six-point decline in the percentage disapproving of Obama 's job performance ( from 49 % to 43 % ) . Obama 's rating hit a two-year high in May ( 56 % ) , following the killing of Osama bin Laden .
India also has experienced `` very high '' levels of religion-related social hostilities in the past decade , according to the same Pew Research Center study . In fact , since we began tracking this issue in 2007 , the country has consistently scored `` very high '' on the study 's Social Hostilities Index . Much of the hostility is directed against low-caste Dalits , according to the U.S. State Department . Religious minorities , including Buddhists , Christians , Jains , Muslims and Sikhs , also are harassed . In recent years there has been a surge in mob attacks by Hindu vigilante groups against Dalit and Muslim consumers and traders in the beef , dairy and leather industries . Additionally , Dalit women are disproportionately victims of sexual violence due to their caste , while Muslim women and girls also have been targeted due to their religion .
In a survey conducted in fall 2018 , more than four-in-five Lebanese adults ( 84 % ) said they use WhatsApp , the highest rate among 11 emerging economies included in the survey . It is the most commonly used social network or messaging platform in Lebanon , beating out Facebook , Instagram and other platforms .
Given the torpid jobs performance , it comes as little surprise that personal income also has lagged . According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis , per-capita disposable income ( after adjusting for inflation ) has grown just 3.2 % since mid-2009 , to $ 37,038 as of the first quarter of 2014 . In previous recoveries , it was much higher : 11.6 % in the first five years of the 2001 - 07 recovery , and 8.7 % in the first five years of the 1990s tech boom . One metric about the current recovery , however , jumps out : the stock market . The benchmark S & P 500 index has more than doubled over the course of the recovery , by far its largest gain of any of the periods we looked at . The index surpassed its pre-crash high in March 2013 , and has gone on since to a series of new record highs . ( Of course , that 's not much comfort to the 44 % of Americans who say they do n't own stocks . ) On another closely tracked measure , the economy regained all of its lost payroll jobs just last month . But even that measure does n't take into account the population growth during that period . What the chart does n't show is that there are about 15 million more working-age people now than there were in January 2008 , but essentially the same number of jobs .
The number of Hispanics who speak Spanish at home is at an all-time high , though growth is slowing . A record 37 million Hispanics ages 5 and older speak Spanish at home , up from 25 million in 2000 . However , between 2010 and 2015 , this number grew at an annual average of 1.8 % , down from an annual average of 3.4 % between 2000 and 2010 . California continues to have the largest Latino population among states , but Texas is seeing a faster growth rate . In 2015 , 15.2 million Hispanics lived in California , a 39 % increase from 10.9 million in 2000 . Yet Texas has had even faster growth , with its Hispanic population increasing 60 % over the same period , from 6.7 million in 2000 to 10.7 million in 2015 . Meanwhile , Georgia 's Hispanic population has more than doubled since 2000 , the fastest growth among the 10 states with the largest Hispanic populations .
Public interest in the 2008 presidential campaign reached a new high last week , despite the decline in press coverage . Fully 36 % of the public followed news about the campaign very closely , and the same percentage say it is the single story they followed most closely this past week . As recently as Nov 23 - 26 , 2007 , roughly half as many Americans ( 20 % ) reported this close attention to the campaign . This is the highest level of interest recorded during this campaign cycle , and it is comparable to the percent of Americans who were closely following campaign news in March 2004 ( 35 % ) — after that year 's `` Super Tuesday '' Democratic primaries .
Not only are men who have recently remarried more likely than those beginning a first marriage to have a spouse who is younger ; in many cases , she is much younger . Some 20 % of men who are newly remarried have a wife who is at least 10 years their junior , and another 18 % married a woman who is 6 - 9 years younger . By comparison , just 5 % of newlywed men in their first marriage have a spouse who is 10 years younger , and 10 % married a woman who is 6 - 9 years younger .
Most Americans continue to say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the nation 's still-struggling economy . Just more than half say this ( 53 % ) , a number little changed since early July ( 54 % ) . For the first six months of 2010 , the public was more likely to say they were hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , but a spate of developments in early summer – signs the recovery had slowed and continuing high unemployment – led to a shift . More said they were hearing mostly bad news about the economy , while fewer said they were hearing a mix of good and bad news . About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) now say they are hearing mostly bad news , consistent with numbers since the early days of summer ( 42 % in July ) . With the survey in the field as the federal government released a jobs report that showed the unemployment rate hovering around 9.6 % , few ( 6 % ) say they are hearing mostly good news about the economy . That 's comparable to most months this year .
Three main election themes dominated the coverage . The end of the presidential campaign — which encompassed coverage on just two days , was the No . 1 story , accounting for 27 % of the week 's newshole . Coverage of the election results — including straight reporting and analysis — was No . 2 , filling another 21 % . And coverage of the incoming Obama administration — which began on Nov. 5 and looked forward — was right behind , also accounting for 21 % of the newshole .
Throughout the first three months of the year , Obama and Clinton have been far more visible than the other presidential candidates , and this overwhelming focus on the Democratic contest continues . In the current poll , Obama is by far the candidate that the public has been hearing the most about in the news . Fully , 70 % have heard more about Obama in the last week than any other candidate . This is consistent with the balance of the press coverage , according to the Campaign Coverage Index conducted by the Project for Excellence in Journalism . Last week , Obama was the featured news maker in 72 % of all campaign news stories , his highest coverage level this year . Only 15 % said that Sen. Clinton was the candidate they have been hearing the most about . The gap between Obama 's and Clinton 's visibility has grown substantially over the last two weeks from roughly equal visibility in early March , when 38 % had been hearing most about Obama , 37 % about Clinton . The drop in Clinton 's public visibility is also consistent with the amount of coverage her campaign received in recent weeks . The share of campaign coverage in which Clinton was the featured candidate fell from 60 % three weeks ago to 51 % in the following week and down to 30 % this past week , according to the Campaign Coverage Index conducted by the Project for Excellence in Journalism . Though John McCain has sewn up the Republican nomination , he continues to lag far behind Obama and Clinton in public visibility . Only 3 % of the public named John McCain as the candidate they heard most about in the news recently . This too is consistent with the findings of the Campaign Coverage Index , which found just 17 % of campaign news stories giving a substantial amount of coverage to McCain , compared with 30 % for Clinton and 72 % for Obama .
Gun ownership spans all types of American communities , but it is particularly common in rural parts of the country . Among adults who live in rural areas , 46 % say they own a gun , compared with 28 % of adults who live in the suburbs and even fewer – 19 % – in urban areas , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
The Seventh-day Adventist Church , known for its observance of the Sabbath on Saturdays and some other unique beliefs and practices , traces its origins to the United States in the first half of the 19th century , when preacher William Miller built a religious movement around his prediction that Jesus Christ would return to Earth in 1844 . Since then , the church has transitioned from being seen as a cult by some Americans to a more mainstream evangelical Christian denomination . Seventh-day Adventists make up one-half of 1 % of the U.S. adult population ( 0.5 % ) , little changed from 2007 ( 0.4 % ) . That stability stands in contrast to U.S. Christians overall , whose share of the population has dropped by nearly 8 percentage points ( from 78.4 % to 70.6 % ) over that same period .
Overall , sharing passwords to digital devices or accounts is a fairly common practice in romantic relationships . In the October 2019 survey , a majority of Americans who are married , cohabiting or in a committed relationship say they have given their spouse or partner the password for their cellphone ( 75 % ) , their email account ( 62 % ) or any of their social media accounts ( 42 % ) . Still , experiences do vary depending on the type of relationship partnered people have . Married or cohabiting adults are much more likely to share their cellphone or social media passwords with their partner than those who are in a committed relationship but are not living with their partner . Roughly three-quarters or more of married adults ( 79 % ) or those who live with a partner ( 74 % ) say they have given their partner the password to their cellphone , compared with 58 % of those who are in a committed relationship . A similar pattern is present among partnered social media users when they are asked about whether they have shared their login information for any of their social media accounts . When it comes to email password sharing , married adults are the most likely group to say they have given their email password to their partner : 70 % say this , compared with 50 % of cohabiting internet users and just 22 % of those in a committed relationship .
As the United States and Germany prepare to gain new leadership in 2021 , their current relationship remains unbalanced in the minds of their citizenries . In surveys conducted by Pew Research Center and Körber-Stiftung before the U.S. presidential election , an overwhelming majority of Americans continue to say that relations between the two countries are good . At the same time , almost eight-in-ten Germans say the relationship is in poor shape . Since 2017 , the proportion of Germans saying that relations with the U.S. are bad has increased 23 percentage points , while Americans ' views of the relationship have remained relatively steady . These findings are in line with previous research , which found that Germans rated the U.S. at a 20-year low , said the U.S. had handled the coronavirus outbreak poorly and held little confidence in President Donald Trump .
One-in-seven U.S. infants ( 14 % ) are multiracial or multiethnic . This share is nearly triple the share ( 5 % ) in 1980 . Multiracial or multiethnic infants include children younger than 1 year old who live with two parents and whose parents are each of a different race , those with one Hispanic and one non-Hispanic parent , and those with at least one parent who identifies as multiracial .
Remarkably , 72 % said most people in Hungary are actually worse off today economically than they were under communism , while only 8 % said most people are better off and 16 % said things are about the same . Again , Hungary stands apart from the other post-communist societies surveyed — in no other country did so many believe that economic life is worse now than during the communist era .
A look at recent history indicates that presidents do , in fact , veto more bills when both houses of Congress are controlled by the opposing party . We examined more than four decades of legislative data , courtesy of the Library of Congress ' THOMAS website , and found that when presidents are of one party and Congress is controlled by the other , they vetoed 3.6 % of all public bills presented to them , versus just 1 % when both House and Senate were controlled by the president 's party . When control of Congress was divided , presidents vetoed 1.9 % of the public bills that reached their desks . ( Public bills are those of general applicability , and account for the overwhelming number of laws Congress makes . ) By their nature , pocket vetoes ca n't be overridden , since Congress is n't in place to act . And while Congress can try to override a regular presidential veto , it does n't often succeed : Only 31 of the 194 vetoes referred to above ( 16 % ) were overridden . Override attempts failed in 74 cases ( 38 % ) , and in the remaining 89 cases ( 46 % ) Congress accepted the vetoes with no attempt to override . Put another way : If the President vetoes a bill it has a better than 8-in-10 chance of staying vetoed .
Since 2009 , the Pakistani public has also become less willing to use its own military to combat extremist groups . Three years ago , 53 % favored using the army to fight extremists in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas ( FATA ) and neighboring Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , but today just 32 % hold this view .
Buddhists made up roughly 7 % of the world 's population in 2015 , but they are expected to decrease to roughly 5 % by 2060 . This is because Buddhists have relatively low fertility rates compared with other religious groups , and they are not expected to grow significantly due to conversions or religious switching .
Partisanship is a key factor in views about the issue . Fully 73 % of Democrats say they strongly or somewhat approve of social media companies labeling posts on their platforms from elected officials as inaccurate or misleading . On the other hand , 71 % of Republicans say they at least somewhat disapprove of this practice . Republicans are also far more likely than Democrats to say they have no confidence at all that social media companies would be able to determine which posts on their platforms should be labeled as inaccurate or misleading ( 50 % vs. 11 % ) .
Newsroom employment dropped by a quarter between 2008 and 2018 , but the job cuts were not shouldered equally by journalists of all ages . Midcareer news workers – those ages 35 to 54 – were hit the hardest , accounting for the bulk of the decline , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of American Community Survey data .
The survey asked group members whether they had done several core activities with their group in the past 30 days and internet users were significantly more likely to have done all of these activities .
In September 1945 , the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago asked Americans what they would have done if they had been the one to decide whether or not to use the atomic bomb against Japan . At the time , a plurality of Americans supported the course chosen by the Truman administration : 44 % said they would have bombed one city at a time , and another 23 % would have wiped out cities in general – in other words , two-thirds would have bombed some urban area . Just 26 % would have dropped the bomb on locations that had no people . And only 4 % would not have used the bomb .
The July 2011 survey found that the debt ceiling debate had `` tarnished the image of both President Obama and Speaker ( John ) Boehner , '' with about a third saying they had formed a less favorable view of the pair in the preceding weeks . When it came to the parties in Congress , 42 % said their impression of Republicans had become less favorable as a result of the negotiations , compared with 30 % who said that of the Democrats .
Immigrants and their U.S.-born offspring accounted for 55 % of the increase in population since 1966 - 67.3 Within this group of 55 million , Latino immigrants and their offspring were by far the largest , representing about 29 million persons , or 53 % of the addition due to immigration , according to the Center 's estimates . About 12 million Asian and Pacific Islander immigrants and their offspring were added to the population , representing about 22 % of the increase due to immigration . The white immigrant population and its offspring increased by approximately 10 million ( 18 % ) while the black immigrant population and its offspring increased by almost four million ( 7 % ) . That trend prevailed among all racial and ethnic groups . Of the 29 million Latinos added due to post-1966 immigration , 17 million were immigrants and 12 million were their U.S.-born offspring , according to the Pew estimates . Among whites , about 6 million were immigrants and 4 million were their offspring . Among blacks , 3 million were immigrants and 1 million were their offspring . And among Asian and Pacific Islanders , about 9 million were immigrants and 3 million were their offspring .
More than 40 years after the Supreme Court 's Roe v. Wade decision , 69 % of Americans say the historic ruling , which established a woman 's constitutional right to abortion in the first three months of pregnancy , should not be completely overturned . Nearly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) , by contrast , would like to see it overturned . Public opinion about the 1973 case has held relatively steady in recent decades , though the share saying the decision should not be overturned is up slightly from four years ago , Pew Research Center 's December survey found . In January 2013 , 63 % said this , which was similar to views measured in surveys conducted over the prior two decades .
There are also wide political differences on other important energy issues . Democrats and Democratic leaners are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to prioritize use of alternative energy , such as wind and solar , over traditional fossil fuel development . Further , 78 % of Democrats/leaning Democrats favor stricter limits on power plant emissions to address climate change , compared with 50 % of Republicans/leaning Republicans . Republicans and independents who lean to the GOP are also more likely than Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents to favor the increased use of hydraulic fracturing , or `` fracking , '' to extract oil and natural gas from underground rock formations ; more offshore oil and gas drilling ; and building more nuclear power plants .
This next section of this report focuses on a broader range of characteristics of the unauthorized population . Specifically , we first investigate the age , sex , and family structure of the unauthorized population . We introduce here the concept of `` mixed families '' which in this context has one or two parents who are unauthorized migrants and at least one child who is a U.S. citizen . The unauthorized population contains a significant number of solo males and females , but more of the unauthorized are in couples , either with or without children . Most of the children in unauthorized families are U.S. citizens by birth . Unauthorized migrant families contain 13.9 million persons , including the 10.3 million unauthorized migrants . There are 1.6 million children ( under 18 ) in these families , representing about 14 % of all unauthorized migrants . In addition , these families include more than 3 million children who are U.S. citizens by birth . About 56 % of the 8.8 million adult unauthorized migrants are men . Additionally , there are about 400,000 other adults in these unauthorized families .
There are substantial partisan gaps in views of discrimination against religious groups . For example , Democrats and those who lean toward the Democratic Party are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say Muslims face at least some discrimination in the U.S. ( 92 % vs. 69 % ) . Democrats also are more likely than Republicans to say Jews face discrimination ( 70 % vs. 55 % ) . At the same time , Republicans are much more likely than Democrats to say evangelicals face discrimination ( 70 % vs. 32 % ) .
As was the case four years ago , the public is divided over GOP leaders ' policy plans . About as many approve ( 44 % ) as disapprove ( 43 % ) of Republican congressional leaders ' policies and plans for the future . Following the 2010 election , 41 % approved and 37 % disapproved of Republican leaders ' plans . The public by wide margins approved of Democratic leaders ' future plans and policies in 2006 ( 50 % to 21 % ) and Republican leaders ' proposals in 1994 ( 52 % to 28 % ) .
More recently , there has been a major shift in attitudes on whether it is immoral to smoke marijuana . Currently , 32 % say that smoking marijuana is morally wrong , an 18-point decline since 2006 ( 50 % ) . Over this period , the percentage saying that smoking marijuana is not a moral issue has risen 15 points ( from 35 % then to 50 % today ) .
The number of legal permanent residents applying for U.S. citizenship in the nine months starting last October is at its highest level in four years , and it is up 8 % from the same period before the 2012 elections . Although some organizers of naturalization and voter registration drives have suggested the increase is a reaction to Donald Trump 's candidacy , a Pew Research Center analysis of naturalization data shows there have been much larger percentage increases in past years , with jumps not always coming during election years . So far this fiscal year – from October 2015 to June 2016 – 718,430 immigrants have applied for naturalization , a 26 % increase over the same time period a year before , according to data released by U.S . Citizenship and Immigration Services . By comparison , the number of naturalization applications increased by 19 % in fiscal 2012 over the previous year .
When asked about various topics of campaign coverage , two areas stand out for being over-covered : About four-in-ten say there is too much coverage of candidates ' comments on the campaign trail ( 44 % ) and of their personal lives ( 43 % ) , higher than any other topics asked about . This is followed by coverage of which candidate is leading in the polls ( 37 % ) and the candidates ' moral character ( 30 % ) . Very few say the candidates ' experience ( 15 % ) or their stances on issues ( 13 % ) have received too much attention .
For most voters , the 2016 presidential campaign was one to forget . Post-election evaluations of the way that the winning candidate , the parties , the press and the pollsters conducted themselves during the campaign are all far more negative than after any election dating back to 1988 . But voters ' `` grades '' for the way Trump conducted himself during the campaign are the lowest for any victorious candidate in 28 years . Just 30 % of voters give Trump an A or B , 19 % grade him at C , 15 % D , while about a third ( 35 % ) give Trump a failing grade . Four years ago , most voters ( 57 % ) gave Obama an A or B , and after his 2008 election , 75 % gave him an A or B . For the first time in Pew Research Center post-election surveys , voters give the losing candidate higher grades than the winner . About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) give Clinton an A or B , which is comparable to the share giving Mitt Romney top letter grades in 2012 ( 44 % ) and 13 percentage points higher than Trump 's ( 30 % ) .
Nevertheless , a majority of Germans ( 57 % ) believe it is more important for Germany to have strong ties with the United States than with Russia . Just 15 % prefer strong ties with Russia , and another 21 % volunteer that it is best to have an equally close relationship with both . However , East and West Germans differ on ties with the U.S . While 61 % of Germans living in the West prefer a strong affiliation with America , just 44 % of people living in the East agree . And while 23 % of people in the East voice support for strong ties with Russia , only 12 % of those in the West agree .
Internet users who use social networking sites such as Facebook or MySpace and those who use status-update services such as Twitter also have relatively high levels of location-based service usage :
Non-Hispanic whites make up 78 % of voting members in the new Congress , considerably larger than their 61 % share of the U.S. population overall . And despite the growing racial and ethnic diversity of Congress , this gap has widened over time : In 1981 , 94 % of Congress was white , compared with 80 % of the U.S. population .
And the public , by roughly two-to-one ( 61 % to 30 % ) , believes that Congress – not the president – should have final authority over whether the U.S. conducts airstrikes in Syria . Fully 75 % of Republicans and 64 % of independents say Congress should be the ultimate arbiter of whether the U.S. launches airstrikes . Democrats are divided , with 47 % saying Congress should have final authority and 45 % the president .
Behind these sentiments is , in part , a general notion that ICTs do n't contribute to personal productivity . Only one in three Americans who have cell phones or internet access agrees `` a lot '' with the proposition that ICTs make them more productive — although among several techoriented groups ( Omnivores , Connectors , and Productivity Enhancers , roughly one quarter of the population ) , 74 % agree `` a lot '' about ICTs positive impact on their productivity . But in stark contrast , among four groups , comprising 43 % of the general population , just 7 % agree `` a lot '' that ICTs improve their productivity . Those groups are the Lackluster Veterans , Connected but Hassled , Light but Satisfied , and Indifferents .
As is the case with a number of ideals and principles related to democracy in the U.S. , a majority of Americans ( 61 % ) say it is very important that the tone of debate among political leaders is respectful . Yet as with most other ideals , few say this is actually happening . Just 25 % say the following statement – `` The tone of debate among political leaders is respectful '' – describes the country very ( 6 % ) or somewhat well ( 19 % ) . Of the 16 aspects of the political system and democracy asked about in the survey , this rating is among the lowest .
The biggest difference measured is in Italy , where three-quarters say the U.S. would use such military force in such a scenario , compared with only a quarter who say Italy should defend that NATO ally , a 50 percentage point difference . Similar differences are seen in Greece ( 40 points ) , Spain ( 31 ) , Germany ( 29 ) , Slovakia ( 25 ) , the UK ( 18 ) , France ( 16 ) , Turkey ( 14 ) and Canada ( 13 ) . Particularly in Western Europe , the share of the public that says a relationship with the U.S. is more important is substantial . For example , in the UK and the Netherlands , about eight-in-ten support ties with the U.S. over Russia or both . And in Sweden , a non-NATO state , 71 % support closer ties with the U.S. than with Russia ( 11 % ) or both countries ( 9 % ) .
Health experts are concerned about the potential mental health effects of the coronavirus outbreak in the United States , and mental health hotlines report a substantial uptick in calls since the outbreak began . Nearly one-in-five U.S. adults ( 18 % ) say they have had a physical reaction at least some or a little of the time when thinking about the outbreak , according to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted March 19 - 24 . This is particularly true of those affected financially .
In general , younger people tend have more negative views of the typical American than do older adults . Millennials , who are highly critical of members of their own generation , are especially likely to see the typical American as lazy : 63 % say that term applies at least fairly well , compared with no more than about half in older age cohorts .
Among Republicans and Republican leaners , a wide majority of those with household incomes of $ 75,000 a year or more ( 73 % ) think lowering taxes on corporations and large businesses would help the economy . By comparison , 42 % of Republicans in households making $ 30,000 a year or less think lower taxes for large businesses and corporations would help the economy . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , the income pattern in views is the reverse : Those with higher incomes are more likely than those with lower incomes to say tax cuts for large businesses and corporations would hurt the economy . About six-in-ten Democrats with incomes of $ 75,000 a year or more ( 61 % ) think lowering taxes on corporations would hurt the economy , compared with 44 % of those earning $ 30,000 a year or less . While Democrats overall think lower taxes on large businesses and corporations would make the tax system less fair , this view is more widely held among those earning $ 75,000 a year or more ( 76 % ) and those earning between $ 30,000 and $ 74,999 ( 61 % ) than among those with household incomes of less than $ 30,000 ( 45 % ) . Among Republicans , those with incomes of $ 75,000 a year or above are more likely to say lowering taxes on large businesses and corporations would make the tax system more fair ( 43 % ) than less fair ( 17 % ) .
Beyond the racial divisions in immediate reactions to the grand jury decisions , blacks and whites also diverge in opinions about future relations between local police forces and minorities in communities around the country . About half of blacks ( 52 % ) expect relations between local police and minorities to get worse over the next year , while just 16 % see relations improving ; 31 % expect them to stay about the same . Among whites , 34 % say relations will worsen , while 43 % expect them to stay about the same .
The Indians ' favorable view of the U.S. is similar to the opinion of America voiced by the Germans ( 51 % ) and the Chinese ( 50 % ) and certainly more favorable than that held by the Russians ( 23 % ) and Pakistanis ( 14 % ) . But it trails the median view of the U.S. in the European Union ( 66 % ) and in other major emerging market economies : Brazil , South Africa and Indonesia . Moreover , nearly three-in-ten Indians voice no opinion about the United States — so the president has some salesmanship ahead .
Republicans and Democrats largely agree in their assessments of how China 's growing economy and military will affect the U.S . But , while both Republicans and Democrats have unfavorable views of China , Republicans ' opinions are somewhat more negative : 70 % of Republicans and independents who lean Republican have an unfavorable opinion of China today , compared with 59 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents . While unfavorable opinion of China increased among partisans of all stripes over the past year , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents have become particularly negative in their evaluations of China . Seven-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners have an unfavorable opinion of China today , up from 51 % in 2018 . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , unfavorable opinion increased somewhat less over the same period , from 47 % to 59 % .
`` Puerto Rican '' is the identity term used most often . When asked in a 2013 Pew Research Center survey what term they use most often to describe themselves , some 55 % of Puerto Rican adults say they most often use `` Puerto Rican . '' About three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say they describe themselves most often as `` American , '' while 14 % most often use the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' to describe their identity . By comparison , 54 % of all U.S. Hispanics say they prefer their ancestor 's Hispanic origin term to describe their identity , 23 % say they describe themselves most often as `` American '' and two-in-ten use the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' to describe their identity .
Nationwide , 30 % now say they have a very unfavorable opinion , up from 24 % in June and just 10 % in 2010 . Meanwhile , the share expressing a very favorable opinion stands at 9 % and is little changed over the past three years .
A median of 78 % of Europeans have a favorable opinion of Jews . This includes majority approval in all six nations surveyed . The strongest support is in France ( 92 % ) , while the weakest is in Poland ( 59 % ) . A median of 61 % voice a favorable attitude toward Muslims . This includes at least half in four of the six countries . The most favorable view of Muslims is in France ( 76 % ) .
The news media 's watchdog role is seen as more of a necessary check among black adults than among whites . About three-quarters of blacks ( 74 % ) say that news organizations ' criticism of political leaders – known as the media 's `` watchdog '' role – keeps these leaders from doing things that should n't be done . A similar portion of Hispanics ( 72 % ) say the same , but that share drops to 65 % among whites . And while a majority of Americans say news organizations tend to favor one side when dealing with political and social issues , blacks are more closely split on the matter . Among black adults , 41 % say news organizations deal fairly with all sides , compared with 56 % who say news organizations tend to favor one side . In comparison , whites are more likely to say that news organizations tend to favor one side ( 76 % say this ) .
More than one-in-five ( 22 % ) say they very closely followed developments in Iran in the aftermath of a disputed presidential election . But that was down from one week earlier , when three-in-ten ( 31 % ) said they were following developments very closely as the government cracked down on protesters . This was the story followed most closely by 9 % . Coverage of developments in Iran dropped to 4 % in the most recent week from 19 % the week before . Close to one-in-five ( 19 % ) say they very closely followed the U.S. Supreme Court decision that found a group of New Haven firefighters had been illegally denied promotion because of their race . The case has taken on additional national prominence because President Obama 's Supreme Court nominee , Sonia Sotomayor , was part of the appeals court panel whose judgment was overturned . For 5 % , this was the story they followed more closely than any other . The court ruling accounted for 4 % of the newshole . A similar share ( 18 % ) says they very closely followed the sentencing of Bernard Madoff to 150 years in prison for his role in a multi-billion dollar investment fraud ; 4 % say this was the story they followed most closely . The share following Madoff 's sentencing very closely reflects a drop in interest from earlier stories dealing with revelations about the extent of his fraud in December ( 30 % very closely ) and his guilty plea in March ( 27 % very closely ) . The media devoted 5 % of coverage to Madoff 's sentencing .
We measure overall wireless connectivity in two ways . One way is by asking users if they connect through wireless cards in their laptops . Most people of all ages who own laptops now do this . The more striking difference appears in the second aspect of wireless internet use – through mobile phones . College students are much more likely than the overall cell owner population to use the internet on their mobile phones , although all young adults do this at a relatively high rate regardless of student status .
Manufacturing jobs in the United States have declined considerably over the past several decades , even as manufacturing output – the value of goods and products manufactured in the U.S. – has grown strongly . But while most Americans are aware of the decline in employment , relatively few know about the increase in output , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
Views about the decision to go to war remain highly divided along partisan lines , with a 50-point gap separating the opinions of Republicans ( 80 % of whom say the U.S. made the right decision ) and Democrats ( 30 % ) . A potentially ominous sign for President Bush is that the percentage of independents who think the U.S. was right to go to war has now dropped below 50 % for the first time ( 48 % ) .
Fifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq in March 2003 , the American public is divided over whether using military force was the right decision . Nearly half ( 48 % ) of Americans say the decision to use military force was wrong , while slightly fewer ( 43 % ) say it was the right decision , according to a Pew Research Center survey , conducted March 7 - 14 among 1,466 adults . Current opinions about the war in Iraq are little different than in early 2014 , when 50 % said the decision to use force was wrong and 38 % said it was right . Support for the decision to use military force in Iraq had declined considerably over the course of the war and its aftermath . In late March 2003 , a few days after the U.S. invasion , 71 % supported the decision to use military force , while just 22 % said it was the wrong decision . Opinions about the use of military force in Iraq have been divided along partisan lines since the start of the Iraq War , and during the debate that preceded it . Today , a majority of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 61 % ) say the decision to use force was right , compared with just 27 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
Eight-in-ten immigrant Latinos said in 2016 that their own standard of living is better than that of their parents , and just as many expected their children will be better off . Among second-generation Hispanics ( the U.S.-born children of immigrant parents ) , these shares were 75 % and 71 % , respectively – slightly below the shares of immigrant Latinos . But for third or higher generation Latinos ( U.S.-born Latinos with U.S.-born parents ) , just two-thirds ( 66 % ) said they will be better off than their parents and 60 % said they expect their kids to be better off .
Looking over the past decade , from 2003 through 2012 , the overall ad pages for news magazines ( excluding Newsweek ) dropped by 36 % , from 7,848 to 5,008 . But within that time frame were several shifts in trajectory . A major drop-off in ad pages occurred from 2008 to 2009 ( 17 % . ) Ad pages stabilized from 2009 to 2011 , growing at a modest 1 % . But then another downturn occurred as ad pages in 2012 dropped 13 % from the previous year , followed by the 18 % decline in the first half of 2013 .
By a 51 % -41 % margin , more say that immigrants today strengthen the country through their hard work and talents than say they are a burden because they take jobs , housing and health care . The share saying immigrants strengthen the country has edged down from a high of 57 % reached last year .
After the fall of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s , Israel 's largest wave of Jewish immigrants arrived from Russia and other former Soviet republics . These immigrants , who have far outnumbered those from other countries since Israel achieved statehood , were able to come because of Israel 's Law of Return , which allows all Jews around the world to immigrate and receive immediate citizenship . Israeli Jews support this right virtually unanimously . Religiously , the vast majority of FSU-born Jews in Israel ( 81 % ) self-identify as secular ( Hiloni ) , compared with 49 % of all Israeli Jews . This fact is evident when it comes to their views about religion and politics : FSU Jews are adamantly against religious involvement in government . About eight-in-ten say , generally , that religion should be kept separate from government policies ( 79 % ) , and similar shares oppose , specifically , making halakha ( Jewish law ) the state law for Jews in Israel ( 81 % ) and shutting down public transportation on the Sabbath ( 81 % ) . Fewer Israeli Jews overall take these positions .
At its core , demography is the act of counting people . But it 's also important to study the forces that are driving population change , and measure how these changes have an impact on people 's lives . For example , how does immigration affect U.S. population growth ? Do Americans feel that children are better off with a parent at home , in an era when most women work ? How is the rise of the young-adult Millennial generation contributing to the rise of Americans with no stated religion ? For this year 's Population Association of America ( PAA ) annual meeting , here is a roundup of some of Pew Research Center 's recent demography-related findings that tell us how America and the world are changing . Americans are more racially and ethnically diverse than in the past , and the U.S. is projected to be even more diverse in the coming decades . By 2055 , the U.S. will not have a single racial or ethnic majority . Much of this change has been ( and will be ) driven by immigration . Nearly 59 million immigrants have arrived in the U.S. in the past 50 years , mostly from Latin America and Asia . Today , a near-record 14 % of the country 's population is foreign born compared with just 5 % in 1965 . Over the next five decades , the majority of U.S. population growth is projected to be linked to new Asian and Hispanic immigration . American attitudes about immigration and diversity are supportive of these changes for the most part . More Americans say immigrants strengthen the country than say they burden it , and most say the U.S. 's increasing ethnic diversity makes it a better place to live .
When we looked at which countries are hosting the most refugees relative to their populations , Lebanon was far and away the leader . Our analysis , which used 2014 data from the UNHCR and international population estimates from the Census Bureau , found that the 1.15 million refugees in Lebanon last year – nearly all of them fleeing the civil war in neighboring Syria – represent nearly 20 % of that country 's population of 5.9 million . In second place was Jordan , where refugees – also nearly all from Syria – represent more than 8 % of the population . Other nations adjoining conflict zones with significant refugee populations relative to their populations are Chad ( 4 % ) , which borders Sudan ; Djibouti , next to Somalia ( 2.5 % ) ; and Mauritania ( 2.2 % ) , which is sandwiched between two conflict areas , northern Mali and Western Sahara .
When Arizona enacted an unauthorized immigrant enforcement bill earlier this year , the immigration policy debate reignited across the country . Even so , the new survey shows that immigration does not rank as a top voting issue for Hispanics . Rather , they rank education , jobs and health care as their top three issues of concern for this year 's congressional campaign . Immigration ranks as the fifth most important issue for Latino registered voters and as the fourth most important issue for all Latinos .
International migration from countries in sub-Saharan Africa has grown dramatically over the past decade,1 including to Europe2 and the United States . Indeed , most years since 2010 have witnessed a rising inflow of sub-Saharan asylum applicants in Europe , and lawful permanent residents and refugees in the U.S .
There is , however , an age divide among Trump backers . Trump voters ages 18 - 34 are less likely than older Trump supporters to say they have a hard time respecting a Clinton supporter ( 29 % of those under 35 say this , compared with 45 % of Trump backers 65 and older ) .
Donald Trump is at the head of the Republican field due , in part , to the strength of support from many self-described `` born-again or evangelical '' Christians in the early primary and caucus states , according to the exit polls . His success with evangelicals has surprised many observers because of his background ; he is a thrice-married man who once
It 's unclear how the country 's handling of the coronavirus may influence the election results . But a Pew Research Center survey conducted in spring 2019 examined South Koreans ' attitudes toward their democracy more broadly .
Most U.S. adults ( 63 % ) say a major reason for higher COVID-19 hospitalization rates among Black people is that they are more likely to live in densely populated areas . Smaller but still substantial shares point to Black people being more likely to have other health conditions that put them at risk ( 52 % ) , that they are less likely to have access to adequate health care ( 49 % ) and that they are more likely to work in industries that require contact with the public ( 45 % ) . Black Americans are particularly likely to see some of these explanations as major reasons why Black people have been hospitalized at higher rates than other racial or ethnic groups . For example , about two-thirds of Black adults ( 66 % ) say a major reason is that Black people are more likely to have other health conditions that put them at risk , compared with about half or fewer Asian ( 52 % ) , white ( 51 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 45 % ) . And while a majority of Black ( 71 % ) and Asian ( 61 % ) Americans say a major reason for the higher hospitalization rates is that Black people have less access to adequate health care , the share falls to 45 % among both white and Hispanic Americans .
Relatively prosperous Americans have multiple internet and other devices , with higher ownership of cell phones ( 95 % ) , desktop and laptop computers ( 79 % each ) , mp3 players ( 70 % ) , and game consoles ( 54 % ) relative to other income groups .
On average , about a third of Americans say they follow news about the Iraq war very closely each week . Last week , 30 % followed the current situation and events in Iraq very closely , and 26 % listed this as the single news story they were following more closely than any other . Democrats have consistently paid closer attention than Republicans to news about Iraq . Last week , 35 % of Democrats followed news about Iraq very closely , compared to 28 % of both Republicans and Independents .
Clinton and Trump supporters also have widely diverging views of scientists who study climate change . About half of Clinton supporters ( 51 % ) say climate scientists understand very well whether or not climate change is occurring compared with just 17 % of Trump supporters who believe that . Few voters give climate scientists high marks for understanding the best ways to address climate change . About a third of Clinton supporters ( 32 % ) and just one-in-ten Trump supporters ( 10 % ) say climate scientists understand the ways to address climate change very well .
Most Americans continue to say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the nation 's economy , though the percentage hearing mostly bad news has ticked up since last month . Nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) say they are hearing mixed news about the economy , 30 % say they are hearing mostly bad economic news and 11 % say they are hearing mostly good news , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted April 5 - 8 among 1,000 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The survey was in the field when a new federal jobs report was released April 6 that showed worse than expected job growth in March but a slight dip in the unemployment rate to 8.2 % . In early March , 62 % said they were hearing mixed news about the economy , while 24 % said they were hearing mostly bad economic news . Just as in the latest survey , 11 % said they were hearing mostly good news . Public perceptions of the tone of economic news are not much different than they were one year ago . Now , though , the number hearing mostly good news – while still small – is double what it was last April ( 11 % vs. 5 % ) . Views of economic news turned much more negative last August , amid fears that the economy could be slipping back into recession . At that point , 67 % said they were hearing mostly bad news about the economy
But equally important is that 14 % of all Americans – and 28 % of gay marriage supporters – say they have changed their minds on this issue in favor of gay marriage , according to a Pew Research Center poll conducted this month .
However , political tweeters are more evenly divided : 48 % expect the news they see on social media to be largely accurate , while a comparable share ( 51 % ) expects it to be largely inaccurate . Other Twitter users with public accounts are more skeptical : 64 % of nonpolitical tweeters and 58 % of infrequent tweeters say they approach news stories from social media sites with the expectation that they will be largely inaccurate .
Half of this group thinks that their vote does n't really affect how the government runs things , notably higher than the 36 % of those who learned about the election from at least one type of source .
The national mood in Brazil is grim , following a year in which more than a million people have taken to the streets of major cities across the country to protest corruption , rising inflation and a lack of government investment in public services such as education , health care and public transportation , among other things . A new survey by the Pew Research Center finds that 72 % of Brazilians are dissatisfied with the way things are going in their country , up from 55 % just weeks before the demonstrations began in June 2013 .
This lack of adherence to best practices begins with the ways that Americans keep track of the passwords to their online accounts . Cybersecurity experts generally recommend password management software as the safest and most secure way to track and maintain online passwords . Still , just 12 % of internet users say that they ever use password management software themselves – and only 3 % say that this is the password technique they rely on most . Instead , roughly two-thirds ( 65 % ) of internet users say that memorization is the main or only way they keep track of their online passwords – and another 18 % rely primarily on writing their passwords down on a piece of paper . In other words , fully 84 % of online adults rely primarily on memorization or pen and paper as their main ( or only ) approach to password management .
Overall , 46 % of whites favor building a wall along the U.S. border with Mexico , while a similar share ( 52 % ) say they are opposed . By contrast , large majorities of blacks ( 86 % ) and Hispanics ( 83 % ) say they oppose building the wall . Opposition to the wall is widespread among young adults younger than 30 . By 78 % to 20 % , more adults under 30 oppose than favor a wall . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of those ages 30 - 49 also oppose a wall . Views among those ages 50 and older are more divided , with opposition narrowly outweighing support for a border wall .
Among the nation 's immigrants , Spanish is by far the most spoken non-English language ( 42 % of immigrants say they speak Spanish at home ) , but it is not the only non-English language spoken by immigrants . Some 6 % of immigrants speak Chinese ( including Mandarin and Cantonese ) , 5 % speak Hindi or a related language , 4 % speak Filipino or Tagalog , 3 % speak Vietnamese , 3 % speak French and 2 % speak Dravidian .
News about the rescue of three women who had been held captive in a Cleveland home was far and away the public 's top story last week . Four-in-ten ( 40 % ) say they followed the story very closely , more than followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy ( 28 % very closely ) or news about the Benghazi hearings ( 23 % very closely ) .
So far , the Ebola virus has not led to widespread concern about personal health : Just 11 % are very worried that they or someone in their family will be exposed to the virus , while another 21 % are somewhat worried . Two-thirds say they are either not too ( 37 % ) or not at all worried ( 30 % ) about contracting Ebola .
In many of the countries surveyed , people also tend to think their nation has positive economic relations with both the U.S. and China . For example , eight-in-ten Israelis give a positive evaluation of the economic ties between their country and China as well as the U.S. , and at least half or more say the same in Australia ( 72 % ) , Kenya ( 64 % ) , Nigeria ( 62 % ) , the Philippines ( 58 % ) and South Africa ( 52 % ) . South Korea stands out as the only country in which a plurality of people say current economic ties with the U.S. are positive , while those with China are negative ( 37 % ) . In contrast , Lebanese ( 39 % ) and Turks ( 30 % ) are more likely to see positive economic relations with China and not the U.S. , though these publics are relatively divided .
Russians do not like the U.S. and other Western powers . Only 15 % of Russians have a favorable view of the U.S. , with 81 % holding an unfavorable opinion . Similarly , only 12 % of Russians have positive views of NATO . Even opinions of the EU ( 31 % favorable ) and Germany ( 35 % ) are at all-time lows . In fact , since 2011 , positive views of Germany have fallen 43 percentage points . Similar drops in favorability also occurred in views of the U.S. ( down 41 points ) , the EU ( down 33 ) and NATO ( down 25 ) since 2011 .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that 76 % in France say they have a favorable view of Muslims living in their country , similar to the 72 % registered in 2014 . Meanwhile , the percentage with a very favorable opinion of Muslims has increased significantly , rising from 14 % last year to 25 % today . Attitudes toward Muslims tend to be more positive on the political left in France , but ratings improved across the ideological spectrum .
The economy and jobs : Americans ' views of economic conditions are more positive than they have been in recent years . An October survey found 41 % of Americans rating economic conditions in the country as `` excellent '' or `` good , '' near the highest point in a decade . The public 's improving economic outlook is reflected in its policy agenda for Trump and Congress in the coming year . Economic issues – improving the job situation , strengthening the economy and reducing the budget deficit – are now viewed as less important policy priorities than they were just a few years ago , according to a survey conducted earlier this month .
While officers and the public differ on a ban on assault-style weapons , the views of both groups are closely aligned on other gun-control measures . For example , more than nine-in-ten officers ( 95 % ) and close to the same share of the public ( 87 % ) favor laws that would prevent the mentally ill from purchasing guns . About the same proportions of the police and the public favor background checks for people who buy firearms at a gun show or from a private individual ( 88 % and 86 % , respectively ) . A majority of police and a larger share of the public also support the creation of a federal database to track gun sales ( 61 % and 71 % , respectively ) .
Americans continued to track news about the new health care law more closely than any other major story last week , though the media devoted the most attention to the deadly explosion in a West Virginia coal mine—and just 3 % of coverage to health care reform . A third of the public ( 33 % ) says they followed news about health care reform most closely , while 24 % say the mining accident was the story they followed more closely than any other , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted April 9 - 12 among 1,012 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . News about the accident , the search for survivors and mine safety problems made up 17 % of coverage , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
About six-in-ten Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters ( 61 % ) say they think of their vote as a vote against Trump ; in June 2006 , a comparable share of Democrats ( 65 % ) considered their midterm vote to be a vote against George W. Bush . In both 2010 and 2014 , smaller shares of Republican voters thought of their vote as a vote against Obama ( 54 % in 2010 , 51 % in 2014 ) .
Other factors play a much smaller role—14 % of users say that connecting around a shared hobby or interest is a major reason they use social media , and 9 % say that making new friends is equally important . Reading comments by public figures and finding potential romantic partners are cited as major factors by just 5 % and 3 % of social media users , respectively .
Biden voters are more likely than Trump voters to say they contributed money to candidates running for office ( 28 % of Biden voters vs. 21 % of Trump voters ) or worked or volunteered for a political campaign ( 8 % vs. 3 % ) . Among voters who contributed money to a campaign , about half say they gave less than $ 100 and about half say they gave $ 100 or more . Identical shares of Trump voters who contributed money and Biden voters who contributed money say they gave less than $ 100 ( 49 % of both groups ) .
White and coloured South Africans are more pessimistic about the country 's economic situation today than in the past . However , answers to this question vary widely by race . Similar shares of coloured and white South Africans say the financial situation has worsened ( 45 % and 46 % , respectively ) , while only 29 % of black South Africans express this sentiment .
Substantially more women than men are in jobs that pay the minimum wage or less , according to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data analyzed by the Pew Research Center . Men make up a larger share of the U.S. labor force than women ( 53 % -47 % ) . But among those who earn the minimum wage or less , 62 % are women and 38 % are men . Among those paid by the hour , some 5.4 % of women ( 2.1 million workers ) made the federal minimum wage or less in 2013 . For men , that share is 3.3 % , or 1.2 million workers . ( Some people may be paid below the federal minimum wage , including those who make tips . ) The difference has narrowed since 1979 , when the share of hourly workers who earned federal minimum wage or less was 20.2 % for women and 7.7 % for men . The biggest gap is between young women and young men . Among hourly workers ages 20 to 24 , some 10.0 % of women made the federal minimum wage or less in 2013 , compared with 5.8 % of men . By comparison , the gender gap narrows for older workers . Among hourly workers ages 30 to 34 , some 4.0 % of women made the federal minimum wage or less , compared with 2.7 % of men . Among workers ages 60 to 64 , women and men are about equally likely to work at the federal minimum wage—1.5 % of women did in 2013 , compared with 1.2 % of men .
And the Republican Party fares much better on issues than image . Despite the majority view that the GOP lacks empathy for the middle class , about as many Americans say the Republican Party ( 44 % ) as the Democratic Party ( 41 % ) can do better in dealing with the economy . On immigration the public also is divided : 45 % say the Democrats can do better , while 43 % prefer the GOP . The only issue on which Democrats have an edge is on health care ( 47 % to 40 % ) . Views of the party best able to handle foreign policy have taken a particular turn in favor of the Republican Party : Today 48 % say the GOP would do a better job on this issue , while 35 % say the Democratic Party . This is the first time during the Obama administration that the GOP has held the edge on foreign policy .
In a week dominated by news about the Tucson shootings , Americans continued to track news about the economy . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say they followed economic news very closely , a level that has changed only slightly in recent weeks . Still , just 12 % say this was the news they followed most closely . About a third ( 35 % ) say they followed news about winter storms in the eastern United States very closely ; 16 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Not surprisingly , interest was highest in the north east and the south . More than one-in-ten ( 13 % ) say they followed news about floods in Australia very closely ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Two other breaking foreign stories barely registered with the public . Just 4 % say they followed news about the collapse of the Lebanese government very closely ; 1 % says this was the news they followed most closely . And 3 % say they followed news about the independence vote in southern Sudan very closely . Less than 1 % say this was the story they followed most closely .
Politically , people also tend to see a trade-off between the two superpowers . About half of adults in Taiwan ( 49 % ) would support closer political ties to the U.S. but would not say the same of mainland China . Adults who prefer political ties to the U.S. over ties to the mainland are more likely to be ages 18 to 29 , support the currently ruling DPP or identify solely as Taiwanese . No more than about one-in-ten reject closer political ties to both countries or support closer political ties with China but not the U.S .
According to the October jobs report , more than 92 million Americans — 37 % of the civilian population aged 16 and over — are neither employed nor unemployed , but fall in the category of `` not in the labor force . '' That means they are n't working now but have n't looked for work recently enough to be counted as unemployed . While that 's not quite a record — figures have been a bit higher earlier this year — the share of folks not in the labor force remains near all-time highs . Why ? You might think legions of retiring Baby Boomers are to blame , or perhaps the swelling ranks of laid-off workers who 've grown discouraged about their re-employment prospects . While both of those groups doubtless are important ( though just how important is debated by labor economists ) , our analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data suggests another key factor : Teens and young adults are n't as interested in entering the work force as they used to be , a trend that predates the Great Recession .
Few Americans trust social media as a news source . Only about two-in-ten Americans ( 22 % ) trust the information they get from local news organizations a lot , whether online or offline , and just 18 % say the same of national organizations . But large majorities say they have at least some trust in both . This is not the case for social media , however . Only 4 % of web-using adults have a lot of trust in the information they find on social media , and just 34 % say they trust it at least some .
Despite the rosy picture in China , many Chinese complain about inequality ( 42 % very big problem ) and inflation ( 38 % ) . More than four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say their government 's economic policies are to blame for the rich-poor gap in their nation , one of the higher percentages across all countries in the survey .
Nearly six-in-ten registered voters who back Clinton ( 58 % ) say they have a `` hard time '' respecting someone who supports Trump for president ; 40 % say they have `` no trouble '' with it . Nearly the opposite is true among Trump supporters , with 56 % saying they have no trouble respecting someone who backs Clinton and 40 % saying they do have trouble with it .
Overall , in 2019 , more than four-in-ten Americans pointed to wages and incomes ( 48 % ) , the availability of jobs ( 45 % ) and health care costs ( 43 % ) as contributing a great deal to their overall opinion about how the economy is doing . Roughly one-quarter or fewer said real estate values ( 27 % ) , how the stock market is doing ( 25 % ) and gas prices ( 23 % ) contributed a great deal to shaping their views of the economy .
However , fewer than half ( 45 % ) of all Americans surveyed last year said they believe the U.S. has made substantial progress toward racial equality since 1963 , when King delivered his `` I Have a Dream '' speech in Washington . Roughly half of Americans ( 49 % ) said `` a lot more '' needs to be done to achieve racial equality . Broken down by race , a higher share of blacks ( 79 % ) than Hispanics ( 48 % ) and whites ( 44 % ) felt that way , according to a Pew Research Center report .
In keeping with the socializing preference of internet users , people on social networks are apt to share information about popular culture , such as music , movies and sports . Men are more likely than women to share sports news with their family and friends online . Sharing information about personal views regarding religion and politics and purchases is less common . Less than four-in-ten social networkers in emerging and developing nations say they share views about products ( 37 % ) , politics ( 34 % ) and religion ( 30 % ) . But there is a range of interest in debating these topics online , from the 8 % among social networkers in Russia and Ukraine who discuss religion to the 64 % in Jordan who say the same . Similar ranges can be found for sharing views about politics and products on social networks .
Today 's American families are more likely than those of past decades to feature two full-time working parents . A new Pew Research Center report looks at how working moms and dads in two-parent households are balancing their jobs with their family responsibilities and how they view the dynamics of sharing child care and household responsibilities . Two-parent households with a mother who does not work outside the home have grown much less common in the U.S. since 1970 . Today , both parents work full time in 46 % of these households . Only about a quarter of two-parent households now consist of a full-time working father and a mother who is not employed . By comparison , in 1970 , both parents worked full time in just 31 % of two-parent homes , while a full-time working dad and a stay-at-home mom made up a 46 % plurality of them .
Wealth inequality has widened along racial , ethnic lines since end of Great Recession . The wealth of white households was 13 times the median wealth of black households in 2013 , compared with eight times the wealth in 2010 , according to a new analysis of data from the Federal Reserve 's Survey of Consumer Finances . Likewise , the wealth of white households is now more than 10 times the wealth of Hispanic households , compared with nine times the wealth in 2010 . The current gap between blacks and whites has reached its highest point since 1989 , when whites had 17 times the wealth of black households . The current white-to-Hispanic wealth ratio has reached a level not seen since 2001 .
More than four-in-ten Catholic churchgoers say they have recently heard a sermon expressing opposition to abortion . In a survey conducted this summer , Pew Research Center asked U.S. adults who had recently attended religious services in person or watched online or on TV whether they had heard certain topics addressed in sermons . Among Catholics , 44 % had heard homilies that expressed opposition to abortion in the past month , while 12 % had heard homilies that expressed support for legal abortion . Among Protestants , 33 % had heard messages opposing abortion .
For example , about two-thirds ( 68 % ) of Republicans who live in states where about a third or more of voters cast their ballots by mail say they favor allowing any voter to cast their ballot by mail if they want to . This compares with roughly four-in-ten of those who live in states with low rates of voting by mail . There is less variation in views among Democrats . More than eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners – regardless of their state 's rate of 2018 mail voting – say they favor allowing any voter to vote by mail if they want to . However , Democrats in states with higher or more moderate rates of mail-in voting in 2018 are slightly more likely to say they strongly support allowing any voter to vote by mail than those in states where fewer vote by mail .
Turks are almost evenly divided about the current direction of their country : 49 % are dissatisfied with the way things are going and 48 % are satisfied . This is a notable improvement from last year , when 60 % were dissatisfied and 38 % were satisfied . And it is a dramatic change from 2009 , when three-in-four Turks felt the country was on the wrong track .
Some space experts argue that the life support systems required to sustain astronauts on a long interplanetary journey would be so expensive that it would be more cost-effective to send robotic probes .1 With regards to future expeditions into space , a majority of Americans say they would consider it essential that humans , not solely robots , make the trip . Overall , 58 % of U.S. adults believe it is essential to include the use of human astronauts in the U.S. space program , while 41 % say astronauts are not essential .
In April , there was broad bipartisan support for the $ 2 trillion federal coronavirus aid package . Today , a sizable majority of the public ( 71 % ) thinks it will be necessary for the president and Congress to pass an additional economic assistance package for the country , with support for a second package much higher among Democrats than Republicans . About nine-in-ten Democrats ( 87 % ) say it will be necessary to pass another economic assistance package . However , views among Republicans are divided : 51 % say a new economic package will be necessary , while 47 % say it will not be necessary .
Moreover , social media has become a place where some users discuss relationships and investigate old ones . Roughly half of social media users ( 53 % ) say they have used these platforms to check up on someone they used to date or be in a relationship with , while 28 % say they have used social media to share or discuss things about their relationship or dating life . For adult users under the age of 30 , those shares who have used social media to checked-up on a former partner ( 70 % ) or posted about their own love life ( 48 % ) are even higher .
About half of the public ( 51 % ) express unfavorable views of Speaker of the House John Boehner , while 22 % have a favorable opinion of him ( 26 % hold no opinion ) . A smaller share of the public has an opinion of Senate Majority Leader McConnell ; however , about as many rate him favorably as Boehner ( 23 % ) and fewer ( 38 % ) have an unfavorable opinion of him ( 39 % have no opinion ) .
Just 46 % of Americans give the WHO positive marks on its coronavirus response , though views of how well the organization has dealt with the outbreak are sharply divided along partisan lines . Whereas 62 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the organization has done at least a good job in handling the pandemic , only 28 % of Republicans and GOP leaners say the same .
Though Jeb Bush is widely known by Republican voters , just 23 % say there is a good chance they would vote for him , while 41 % say there is some chance ; 25 % say there is no chance they would vote for the former Florida governor . Mike Huckabee has similar levels of both recognition and support among Republican voters .
Josef Stalin and Mikhail Gorbachev , the Russian leaders presiding , respectively , over World War II and the fall of the USSR , receive starkly different ratings in Russia . In a 2015 survey , a majority of the Russian public ( 58 % ) believed Stalin played a very or mostly positive role in history . Few people ( 22 % ) felt the same way about Gorbachev .
Trade disputes have dominated relations between the world 's two biggest economies in recent weeks , as Washington and Beijing have slapped tariffs on goods from their respective countries . Although tensions over trade are hardly new , they have intensified during the Trump administration , and as a new Pew Research Center survey illustrates , American attitudes toward China have become somewhat less positive over the past year . Overall , 38 % of Americans have a favorable opinion of China , down slightly from 44 % in 2017 . Attitudes toward China have fluctuated to some extent in recent years , becoming more negative during the 2012 election cycle , but more positive in 2017 , before this year 's decline .
In the aftermath of the deadly shooting at a high school in Parkland , Florida , a majority of American teens say they are very or somewhat worried about the possibility of a shooting happening at their school – and most parents of teens share that concern , according to new Pew Research Center surveys of teens ages 13 to 17 and parents with children in the same age range . Overall , 57 % of teens say they are worried about the possibility of a shooting happening at their school , with one-in-four saying they are very worried . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they are not too worried about this , and just 13 % say they are not at all worried . Nonwhite teens express a higher level of concern than their white peers . Roughly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of nonwhite teens , including 73 % of Hispanics , say they are at least somewhat worried about this , compared with 51 % of white teens .
In the Senate , the overall pattern of ideology predicting Facebook followers is largely driven by a small number of prominent members in both parties , including Democrat Bernie Sanders of Vermont , Texas Republican Ted Cruz , Massachusetts Democrat Elizabeth Warren , Kentucky Republican Rand Paul , Utah Republican Mike Lee and Minnesota Democrat Al Franken . Sanders , Cruz and Paul all ran for president in 2016 . Arizona Republican John McCain , who had more than 1 million followers , ran for president in 2008 . It 's not clear exactly why more-ideological members have more page followers than moderates . But a February Pew Research Center analysis of Facebook posts shared by members of the previous Congress found that very liberal or conservative lawmakers were more likely to share content that expressed indignation or disagreement on political matters , and that such posts drew more engagement online . Other research that examined past Congresses using the same measure of ideology has found that media outlets were more likely to cover the most liberal and conservative members of the U.S. House than they were moderates .
As the Greatest generation has mostly passed from the scene , members of the Silent generation – most of whom came of age politically during the Truman and Eisenhower presidencies – have come to make up an increasing share of voters 65 and older . They have long voted less Democratic than the Greatest generation ; in both 2008 and 2010 , both Truman- and Eisenhower-era Silents voted more Republican than average . The Baby Boom is a long generation , spanning many presidencies . The oldest , who turned 18 when LBJ was president , have mostly voted with the national electorate in recent years , though they voted more Republican than average in 2008 . Those Boomers who came of age when Nixon was president retained a Democratic leaning , although they have voted with the overall electorate since 2006 . The youngest Boomers , who mostly came of age in the Ford and Carter years , have been one of the most reliable Republican voting groups .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu receives overwhelmingly negative ratings in neighboring countries . At least nine-in-ten in neighboring Lebanon ( 99 % ) , Palestinian territories ( 96 % ) , Jordan ( 95 % ) and Egypt ( 92 % ) have an unfavorable view of the Israeli leader ; 85 % in Tunisia and 70 % in Turkey also express negative opinions of Netanyahu .
Egyptians are about as unhappy with the direction of their country as they were back in spring 2010 , less than a year before the revolution that toppled then President Hosni Mubarak , following 18 days of protest in Cairo 's Tahrir Square . Today , 72 % of Egyptians are dissatisfied with the country 's direction , while just 24 % are satisfied .
Between 1900 and 2010 , the total number of Christians in the region – including Egypt , Iraq , Israel , Jordan , Lebanon , Syria and the Palestinian territories – grew from 1.6 million to 7.5 million . But while the Christian population in the Middle East more than quadrupled in that period , the non-Christian population increased ten-fold . As a result , the Christian share of the overall population in the region decreased from 10 % in 1900 to 5 % in 2010 . In recent decades , Christians in the region have tended to be older , have fewer children and be more likely to leave the area compared with Muslims .
About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) say they expect a bill to pass this year , while 29 % predict a bill will not pass . This is little changed from mid-December , when 61 % expected a bill to pass and 34 % said a bill would not pass . Democrats are notably more likely to predict passage – 68 % say health care legislative will pass – than are independents ( 58 % ) or Republicans ( 50 % ) .
Recent surveys by Pew Research Center and other organizations have shown public divides over science-related issues such as climate change and food science . But public confidence in the scientific community as a whole has remained stable for decades , according to data collected by NORC , an independent research organization at the University of Chicago . In the group 's 2018 General Social Survey , the most recent available , 44 % of Americans overall have a great deal of confidence in the scientific community , while 47 % have only some confidence and 7 % have hardly any . This was roughly the same share as in 2016 , when 40 % said they had a great deal of confidence in scientific leaders . ( The 4-percentage-point uptick does not reach statistical significance . ) Public confidence in the scientific community stands out as among the most stable of about a dozen institutions rated in the GSS since the mid-1970s . Confidence in medicine has been somewhat less stable , however . It declined in the early 1990s and has ticked downward again in more recent years , from 41 % in 2010 to 36 % in 2016 and 37 % in NORC 's most recent survey .
Once online , 76 % of internet users across the 40 countries surveyed use social networking sites , such as Facebook and Twitter . And the most avid social networkers are found in regions with lower internet rates . Roughly three-quarters or more of internet users in the Middle East ( 86 % ) , Latin America ( 82 % ) and Africa ( 76 % ) say they use social networks , compared with 71 % in the U.S. and 65 % across six European nations .
Roughly half of both Republicans and Republican leaners ( 47 % ) and Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 46 % ) say the campaign against ISIS has not made much of a difference when it comes to terrorist attacks on American soil . However , Democrats are more likely than Republicans to say the military campaign has increased the chances of a terrorist attack in the U.S. ( 33 % vs. 18 % ) , while Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say the campaign against ISIS has decreased the chances of a terrorist attack ( 32 % vs. 18 % ) .
Americans are increasingly going online just for fun and to pass the time . On any given day , 53 % of all the young adults ages 18 - 29 go online for no particular reason except to have fun or to pass the time . Many of them go online in purposeful ways , as well . But the results of a survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project show that young adults ' use of the internet can at times be simply for the diversion it presents . Indeed , 81 % of all young adults in this age cohort report they have used the internet for this reason at least occasionally . These results come in the larger context that internet users of all ages are much more likely now than in the past to say they go online for no particular reason other than to pass the time or have fun . Some 58 % of all adults ( or 74 % of all online adults ) say they use the internet this way . And a third of all adults ( 34 % ) say they used the internet that way `` yesterday '' – or the day before Pew Internet reached them for the survey .1 Both figures are higher than in 2009 when we last asked this question and vastly higher than in the middle of the last decade .
For the first time in Pew Research Center surveys , Democrats are about as likely to say they sympathize more with the Palestinians ( 31 % ) than with Israel ( 33 % ) ; 11 % say they sympathize with neither , while 8 % sympathize with both and 17 % do not offer an opinion . The share of Democrats who say they sympathize more with Israel is down 10 points from April 2016 . The share who say they sympathize more with the Palestinians is little changed from last April ( 29 % ) , but is up significantly from July 2014 when just 17 % said they sympathized more with the Palestinians . By contrast , Republicans continue to overwhelmingly say they sympathize more with Israel ( 74 % ) than the Palestinians ( 11 % ) . There has been little movement in views among Republicans in recent years , but the share who say they sympathize more with Israel is now higher than in the mid-2000s and prior . For example , in 2005 , 57 % of Republicans said they sympathized more with Israel in their dispute with the Palestinians . As a result of these trends , there is now a 41-point gap between the shares of Republicans ( 74 % ) and Democrats ( 33 % ) who say they sympathize more with Israel . This is the largest party gap in views on this question in surveys dating to 1978 .
For the first time in a Pew Research survey , we asked Americans whether they think businesses that provide wedding services , such as catering or flowers , should be allowed to refuse services to same-sex couples for religious reasons . There was an even split on this question , with 47 % saying that businesses should be allowed to refuse services related to same-sex weddings and 49 % saying they should be required to provide services as they would to all other customers .
Cell phones have different uses for different people , but sending text messages and taking pictures or video are the most popular activities among mobile owners . In a few nations , such as Kenya , Uganda and Tanzania , mobile banking is also relatively common . Other activities , such as getting political news , accessing a social networking site , getting health and consumer information and looking for a job are done less frequently .
While both scientists and the public tend to see U.S. scientific achievements as high among other industrial countries , both groups are markedly more critical of the quality of American science , technology , engineering and math ( STEM ) education in grades K-12 . Only 16 % of AAAS scientists and 29 % of the general public rank U.S . STEM education for grades K-12 as above average or the best in the world . Fully 46 % of scientists and 29 % of the public rank K-12 STEM as below average .
If she runs for president in 2016 , Hillary Clinton would bring a number of potential strengths to the race , from her tenure as secretary of state to her perceived toughness and honesty . Fully 67 % of Americans approve of the job she did as secretary of state , while majorities say she is tough ( 69 % ) and honest ( 56 % ) . The public also rejects the notion that Clinton is unlikable – a change from the 2008 Democratic primary campaign . In a memorable moment from that contest , then-candidate Barack Obama turned to Clinton during a debate and said sarcastically , `` You 're likable enough , Hillary . '' Today , just 36 % say Clinton is `` hard to like '' ; a majority ( 57 % ) says that phrase does not describe her . During the 2008 primary season , about half of voters found Clinton hard to like ( 51 % in March 2008 ) . However , the new national survey by the Pew Research Center and USA TODAY , conducted Feb. 27-Mar . 2 among 1,002 adults , finds that Clinton is not widely seen as having new ideas . About half ( 49 % ) say the phrase `` having new ideas '' describes Clinton , while 40 % say it does not ; 11 % offer no opinion .
Among the roughly one-third of Millennials who affiliate with or lean toward the Republican Party , just 31 % have a mix of political values that are right-of-center , while about half ( 51 % ) take a mix of liberal and conservative positions and 18 % have consistently or mostly liberal views .
For example , over the last several decades , as measured in Pew Research Center pre-election surveys , older Boomers have consistently been more likely to vote Democratic than younger members of that generation , while older Gen Xers have consistently been more supportive of Republican candidates than younger Gen Xers . Although the combined sample sizes in these pre-election polls do not allow for examination by individual year of birth , cohorts that comprise a few years – based on the president when each cohort turned 18 – are revealing . In the last presidential election , for instance , Boomers who came of age during the Nixon administration ( born between 1951 and 1956 ) favored Barack Obama over Mitt Romney to a greater degree than people who were slightly older or younger . Those who came of age during the Clinton administration ( those born 1975 to 1982 , mostly younger Xers ) were significantly more likely to favor Obama than the national average , while those who turned 18 during the presidencies of Ronald Reagan and George H.W . Bush ( primarily older Xers and younger Boomers ) were more Republican in their preferences . As of the 2012 election , both older and younger Millennials favored Obama by wide margins . Those who came of age during Bush 's presidency ( those born 1983 to 1990 , older Millennials ) favored Obama over Romney by 19 percentage points more than the national average . Those who came of age during Obama 's first term ( born 1991 to 1994 , mostly younger Millennials ) voted for Obama by an even wider margin . The youngest adult Millennials today ( those currently ages 18 - 20 , born 1995 to 1997 ) have come of age during Obama 's second term , and were not old enough to vote in the 2012 election .
In radio , women make up the same percentage of managers ( 19.3 % ) , the RTDNA 2012 survey reported . But the trajectory over time has been bumpier . The proportion of women in radio management has been relatively stable the last three years , but represents a decline from 2008 , when one-quarter of the general managers were women . The percentage of female managers at daily newspapers has remained stagnant for years . In 1998 , 33.8 % of newspaper supervisors were women ; in 2012 , 34.6 % were , according to the American Society of News Editors , which conducts an annual newsroom census . The ASNE , which released its latest census last week , does not document the percentage of newspaper executive editors who are women , but a look at the 10 largest newspapers ( based on weekday print and digital circulation ) suggests the numbers would not be large . Among these newspapers , only The New York Times has a female executive editor : Jill Abramson , who in 2011 became the first woman to head The Times since its founding in 1851 . Outside the news industry , the proportion of women in managerial roles varies greatly . The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics ( pdf ) found that , in 2012 , women made up the majority of human resource managers ( 72.7 % ) , social service managers ( 70.5 % ) , public relations and fundraising managers ( 69.3 % ) and education administrators ( 64.4 % ) . But they comprise only 10.9 % of architectural and engineering managers and 6.4 % of construction managers .
Despite some growth in certain digital formats , it remains the case that relatively few Americans only consume digital books ( which include audiobooks and e-books ) to the exclusion of print . Some 37 % of Americans say they read only print books , while 28 % read in these digital formats and also read print books . Just 7 % of Americans say they only read books in digital formats and have not read any print books in the past 12 months . ( About a quarter of Americans have n't read a book in any format in the past year . )
After a year of escalating terror attacks against Western targets , people across Europe are widely supportive of U.S.-led military action against the Islamic militant group in Iraq and Syria known as ISIS . But when it comes to a broader strategy to defeat terrorism around the world , many Europeans fear relying too much on military force will create hatred that leads to more terrorism . A Pew Research Center survey conducted this spring , before the most recent terror attacks in France and Germany , found that a median of 76 % across 10 European countries saw ISIS as a major threat to their nation and 69 % supported U.S.-led military actions against the group . When asked about defeating terrorism more widely , only 41 % were convinced that using overwhelming military force was the best strategy . A larger 53 % thought relying too much on force would be counterproductive .
Job disruption during the COVID-19 shutdown is most common among adults younger than 50 . In an early April survey , 54 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 49 % of those 30 to 49 said they or someone in their household had experienced job or wage loss because of the coronavirus outbreak . This compares with 42 % of those ages 50 to 64 and a quarter of those 65 and older .
Some lower-income teens say they lack resources to complete schoolwork at home . In a 2018 Center survey , about one-in-five teens ages 13 to 17 ( 17 % ) said they are often or sometimes unable to complete homework assignments because they do not have reliable access to a computer or internet connection . Black teens and those living in lower-income households were more likely to say they can not complete homework assignments for this reason . A quarter of lower-income teens do not have access to a home computer . One-in-four teens in households with an annual income under $ 30,000 lack access to a computer at home , compared with just 4 % of those in households earning over $ 75,000 , according to the 2018 survey . There are also differences by race and ethnicity . Hispanic teens were especially likely to say they do not have access to a home computer : 18 % said this , compared with 9 % of white teens and 11 % of black teens .
Nearly two-thirds in the U.S. ( 65 % ) also say Americans are tolerant , but international publics are less convinced . While half or more hold this view in Poland , Japan , Germany and Italy , most in China , Sweden , Australia , the UK , France and Canada believe Americans are not tolerant .
Smartphone adoption , however , shows a different picture . More than half of Americans ( 55 % ) have a smartphone , 34 % have a feature phone , and 9 % have no phone . Elsewhere in the world , a smartphone is less common . However , significant minorities in countries such as Lebanon ( 45 % ) and China ( 37 % ) own a smartphone and the future looks bright for the technology . In every country polled , there is a significant age gap on smartphone ownership , with people under 30 more likely to own the devices . For instance , 69 % of 18- 29 year-olds in China have a smartphone , making it the predominant technological choice for future generations .
As of May 2013 , almost three quarters ( 72 % ) of online U.S. adults use social networking sites , up from 67 % in late 2012 . When we first started asking about social networking sites in February 2005 , just 8 % of online adults said they used social networking sites . In addition to asking about general usage of social networking sites in our current survey , we included a stand-alone question about Twitter and found that 18 % of online adults are now Twitter users . This is roughly double the 8 % of online adults who used Twitter in November 2010 , the first time we asked about Twitter as a stand-alone platform .
Although Lebanese Muslims consider Islam an important part of their lives , they place less emphasis on their faith than do Muslims elsewhere . In the six predominantly Islamic countries surveyed , Muslims in Lebanon are the least likely to say religion is very important in their life — just over half ( 54 % ) say religion is very important , compared with 69 % of Muslims in Turkey , 86 % in Jordan , and more than 90 % in Indonesia , Pakistan , and Morocco .
On a typical day in August , 26 million Americans were using the internet for news or information about politics and the upcoming mid-term elections . That corresponds to 19 % of adult internet users , or 13 % of all Americans over the age of 18 . Comparing August 2006 figures to a similar point in the 2002 mid-term election cycle is particularly revealing . In July 2002 , approximately 11 million Americans , or 13 % of online users , said they got some news or information about politics and the campaign from the internet on the average day . The August 2006 number is nearly two-and-a-half times larger than the mid-summer 2002 figure .
Despite the overall sentiment in the U.S. that favors a stronger relationship with Germany , younger Americans are more divided . About four-in-ten of those ages 18 to 29 say it is more important to have a close relationship with Germany , compared with 47 % who say the same about China . Older Americans are much more likely to prefer Germany over China . In general , various Pew Research Center surveys have shown older people in the U.S. , Germany and elsewhere across advanced economies have more negative views of China .
The percentage of adults who use social networking sites is determined in part by the prevalence of internet use , which is more broadly connected to a country 's wealth . The scatter plot below shows the positive relationship between GDP per capita ( PPP ) in the country and the level of social networking . The U.S. , which has the highest per capita GDP among the countries surveyed , is also among the countries with the highest percentage of adults using social networking sites , while Pakistan and India have two of the lowest per capita GDPs and the lowest levels of social networking .
Over the past decade , opinions about levels of legal immigration into the United States have changed among members of both parties , especially among Democrats . Currently , 40 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say that legal immigration into the U.S. should be increased , 39 % say it should be kept at its present level and 16 % say it should be decreased . Still , a larger share of Republicans currently support decreasing ( 33 % ) rather than increasing ( 22 % ) legal immigration into the U.S. ( 39 % say it should be kept at its present level ) . Among Democrats , more than twice as many support increasing ( 40 % ) rather than decreasing ( 16 % ) legal immigration ( 39 % of Democrats also want to keep it at its present level ) .
These findings are based on the most recent installment of the weekly News Interest Index , an ongoing project of the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The index , building on the Center 's longstanding research into public attentiveness to major news stories , examines news interest as it relates to the news media 's agenda . The weekly survey is conducted in conjunction with The Project for Excellence in Journalism 's News Coverage Index , which monitors the news reported by major newspaper , television , radio and online news outlets on an ongoing basis . In the most recent week , data relating to news coverage was collected from March 10 - 16 and survey data measuring public interest in the top news stories of the week was collected March 14 - 17 from a nationally representative sample of 1,005 adults .
Opinions of the health care law remain divided after the Supreme Court upheld the federal government 's ability to provide insurance subsidies via federal exchanges . Roughly equal shares of Americans say they approve ( 48 % ) of the law as say they disapprove ( 49 % ) . Partisan differences remain stark over views of the Affordable Care Act . Compared to February , support among Republicans has ticked up slightly but eight-in-ten Republicans ( 81 % ) still disapprove of the law while only 18 % approve of it . Democrats express approval of the law by a wide 77 % -21 % margin , little changed from February . Among independents 45 % approve of the health care law , while 53 % disapprove .
About half ( 52 % ) of Americans said the U.S. had mostly failed to achieve its goals in Iraq compared with 37 % who said it had succeeded , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in January . That amounted to a 19-point decline in perceived success since 2011 . And , by about the same margin ( 50 % to 38 % ) , the public said the U.S. had made the wrong decision in using military force in Iraq . This represented a shift in public opinion since the earlier years of the Iraq war . In August 2006 , about three years into the conflict , Americans believed by 54 % to 40 % that the U.S. would succeed in achieving its goals . During that same month , Americans were almost evenly divided on whether waging the war was the right decision .
President Obama 's plan for a military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria is drawing public support . And , in a rare display of bipartisanship , majorities of both Republicans ( 64 % ) and Democrats ( 60 % ) approve of the president 's plan . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 11 - 14 among 1,003 adults , finds that overall , 53 % approve of Obama 's plan , while 29 % disapprove ; 19 % do not offer an opinion .
At first glance , new data released Wednesday from the Federal Reserve appears to show an increase in the nation 's net worth compared with six years ago , when the stock market plunged and the financial sector was on the brink of collapse . The Fed reported that the nation 's net worth is $ 74.8 trillion as of June 30 , compared with $ 67.8 trillion in 2007 . Does that mean the wealth of a typical U.S. household has fully recovered from the Great Recession ? Hardly . Keep in mind 3 considerations :
Across five evaluations in the survey , Trump gets his most negative ratings for setting a high moral standard for the presidency . The public 's pre-election expectations were already quite low : In November 2016 , just 33 % of Americans said that if Trump was elected he definitely or probably would set high moral standard for the presidency ; twice as many ( 66 % ) said he definitely or probably would not do this . The current ratings are somewhat more negative : Just 27 % say Trump has set a high moral standard for the presidency , while 71 % say he has not done this . Republicans are divided in their assessment of Trump in this area : 51 % say he definitely or probably set a high moral standard for the presidency , while 47 % say he definitely or probably has not . Just prior to the election , 60 % of Republicans said they expected Trump would set a high moral standard . Before the election , 89 % of Democrats anticipated that Trump would not set a high moral standard for the presidency ; today , about the same share ( 92 % ) say he has not done this . Still , more Democrats say he has definitely not set a high moral standard for the presidency than said he definitely would do this in the pre-election survey ( 81 % now , 69 % then ) . Similarly , before the election an overwhelming share of Democrats ( 91 % ) said Trump would definitely or probably not improve the country 's global standing ; today , 90 % say he has not achieved this objective . Republicans ' views also have changed little since before the election : Currently , 72 % say he has improved the U.S. global standing ; 70 % expected he would do this before his election victory . And while 84 % of Democrats say Trump has improperly used his office to enrich himself , his family or friends , 79 % expected he would do this before the election . Prior to the election , just 29 % of Republicans said Trump definitely or probably would use the office of the presidency for personal gain ; today , even fewer Republicans ( 21 % ) say has definitely or probably done this .
Republicans generally have a positive view of potential increases in tariffs on steel and aluminum imports . About six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say they would be good for the country , while just 26 % say such tariff increases would be bad for the country . Democratic opinion is the opposite : Only 22 % of Democrats think increasing steel and aluminum tariffs would be good for the U.S. , while 63 % say they would be bad for the country . The partisan gap in views of tariffs is substantially wider among those who have heard `` a lot '' about the proposals than those who have not : Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Republicans who have heard a lot about the proposed tariffs say they will be a good thing for the country , compared with just 8 % of Democrats who have heard a lot about them .
Support for the death penalty in the U.S. has ticked up recently , but is far lower than it was two decades ago . A Pew Research Center survey conducted in April and May 2018 found that 54 % of Americans favor the death penalty for people convicted of murder , while 39 % oppose it . That was up from 2016 , when 49 % of U.S. adults said they favored the death penalty , compared with 42 % who opposed it . But it was far lower than in 1996 , when 78 % of Americans supported capital punishment for those convicted of murder .
As the public stakes out its agenda for the president and Congress , Americans increasingly see a big difference in what the two parties stand for . For the first time since the question was first asked more than two decades ago , more than half ( 54 % ) now say there is a great deal of difference in what the Democratic and Republican parties stand for , compared with smaller shares who say there is a fair amount of difference ( 30 % ) or hardly any ( 13 % ) . The share that sees a great deal of difference between the two parties is up from 45 % who said this in 2015 and from just 35 % who said this in 2007 .
More dads are staying home to care for their kids . The share of fathers who are stay-at-home dads ticked up from 4 % in 1989 to 7 % in 2016 . As a result , dads made up 17 % of all stay-at-home parents in 2016 , up from 10 % in 1989 . Among Millennials ( those ages 20 to 35 in 2016 ) , 6 % of dads were at home with their kids . By comparison , 3 % of Gen X dads were at home with their kids when they were the same age . Among stay-at-home dads , it 's becoming much more common to be home specifically to care for family . In 2016 , 24 % of stay-at-home dads reported that this was the main reason they were at home , up from just 4 % in 1989 . In comparison , 78 % of stay-at-home moms reported this was the main reason they were home , down from 86 % in 1989 .
Users know that there is a considerable amount of personal information about them available online . Among the list of items queried , photos were the most commonly reported content posted online ; 66 % of internet users reported that an image of them was available online . And half ( 50 % ) say that their birth date is available .
As the Winter Olympics get underway in Sochi , Russia , 18 % are following news about the games very closely . News about the U.S. economy ( 28 % ) and the continuing rollout of the 2010 health care law ( 23 % ) were the top stories of the week . An additional 17 % closely followed news about the decision by drugstore chain CVS to stop selling cigarettes . One-in-ten adults ( 10 % ) closely followed news last week about the death of actor Philip Seymour Hoffman , who died Sunday , Feb. 2 .
The new study highlights the challenges that both parties face heading into the 2014 and 2016 elections . Each can count on strong support from the three staunchly partisan groups ; Steadfast Conservatives and Business Conservatives on the right , and Solid Liberals on the left . In all three groups , 2014 midterm preferences are comparable to the overwhelming support these groups gave their party 's presidential candidate in 2012 . The middle groups in the typology are less predictable . To be sure , the Faith and Family Left and the Next Generation Left favor Democratic congressional candidates this year by roughly two-to-one margins . But they supported Barack Obama by wider margins in 2012 , and their 2014 turnout is suspect . One early indicator of voter turnout is attention to government and public affairs , and fewer than half in these groups are following politics , compared with broad majorities in the more ideological groups .
As Germany expands its international role , the vast majority of the public ( 81 % ) is also feeling good about Merkel 's capacity to do the right thing on the world stage . However , demographic groups differ somewhat in their trust of the chancellor 's international leadership . Germans ages 50 and older have more confidence in Merkel than their younger counterparts and women are more likely to feel this way than men . Despite the chancellor 's center-right political orientation , those on the political left are actually 11 percentage points more likely than those on the right to say they have confidence in Merkel 's ability to deal with foreign affairs .
In addition , around six-in-ten black STEM employees ( 57 % ) say their workplace pays too little attention to increasing racial and ethnic diversity . Most whites , Hispanics and Asians , by comparison , believe their employer pays about the right amount of attention to diversity .
This report and accompanying interactive is based on a longitudinal analysis of the primary and general election preferences of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters in Pew Research Center 's nationally representative American Trends Panel . This approach provides the ability to examine voters ' choices at an individual level over the course of six surveys conducted throughout 2015 and 2016 . For more detail , see Methodology used in this report . And for a similar look at the GOP nomination contest , see `` For GOP Voters , a Winding Path to a Trump Nomination . ''
Not only are young registered voters less engaged , but fewer young people are registered to vote . In all Pew Research Center polling conducted over the course of 2012 , only half ( 50 % ) of adults under 30 say they are absolutely certain that they are registered . This compares with 61 % in 2008 and 57 % in 2004 . Registration rates typically rise over the course of election years , but for youth voter registration to reach 2008 levels the figures will have to shift decidedly over the coming month .
The longstanding gap between black and white turnout rates in presidential elections began narrowing in the late 1990s , as the black voting rate rose and the white rate plateaued and then began to fall . Barack Obama 's candidacy in 2008 and 2012 doubtless contributed to that trend : Last year 's election was the first in which black voter turnout exceeded that of whites .
Even so , today there is greater partisan antipathy on the right than the left . In the current survey , we asked those who had a very unfavorable opinion of the opposing party : Would you say that party 's policies `` are so misguided that they threaten the nation 's well-being , or would n't you go that far ? '' Among Democrats , 27 % go so far as to say the GOP is a threat to the well-being of the country . A higher percentage of Republicans ( 36 % ) say Democratic policies threaten the nation . The disparity is much larger when ideology is factored in . Among consistently conservative Republicans , 66 % regard Democratic policies as a threat to the nation 's well-being . Substantially fewer ( 50 % ) of consistently liberal Democrats think Republican policies represent a threat to the nation .
This chart shows estimates of the unauthorized migrant population as of March 2004 subdivided the country/region of birth . There are about 10.3 million unauthorized migrants estimated to be living in the United States as of March 2004 . Of these , about 5.9 million or 57 % are from Mexico . The rest of Latin America ( mainly Central America ) accounts for another 2.5 million or about one-quarter of the total . Asia , at about 1.0 million , represents 9 % . Europe and Canada account for 6 % and Africa and Other about 4 % .
Overall attitudes about tariff increases are little changed since last fall . Republicans and Republican leaners continue to have much more positive views of tariff increases than Democrats and Democratic leaners . About two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Republicans say that tariff increases have been good for the U.S. , while just 26 % say they have been bad for the country ( the share of Republicans saying they have been bad for the country is slightly higher than it was in September ) . By comparison , about eight-in-ten Democrats ( 82 % ) say these increases have been bad for the country , and these views are little changed in recent months .
More Americans have heard a lot about Michelle Obama than Cindy McCain , and Mrs. Obama has received much more media coverage than Mrs. McCain . However , somewhat more of those who have heard about Mrs. Obama say the coverage of her has been mostly negative rather than mostly positive ( by 26 % to 21 % ) ; by comparsion , 31 % of those who have heard about Mrs. McCain say coverage of her has been mostly positive while just 7 % say it has been generally negative . Overall , 78 % of Americans have heard at least a little about Michelle Obama . Three-in-ten say they have heard a lot about Mrs. Obama , up from 21 % just three weeks ago . By contrast , just 54 % have heard at least a little about Cindy McCain , including only 9 % who have heard a lot about her . News coverage of Michelle Obama has far outweighed that of Cindy McCain . According to the Project for Excellence in Journalism 's Campaign Coverage Index , from Jan. 1 through June 15 of this year , Obama appeared as a significant newsmaker in 102 stories . Cindy McCain has appeared in just 28 stories over this period .1 Coverage of Michelle Obama has increased dramatically in recent weeks – nearly half of the stories featuring her have appeared in the national news media since May 14 .
Americans think U.S.-German relations are in good shape , but Germans disagree . Roughly two-thirds of Americans say relations are good , compared with just 42 % of Germans , according to polling conducted by Pew Research Center in the U.S. and by the Körber-Stiftung in Germany .
Most Hispanic adults see being Hispanic as part of their racial background . While being Hispanic is described on census survey forms as an ethnic origin and not a race , two-thirds of Hispanic adults said in the 2015 survey that being Hispanic was part of their racial background , including 11 % who described it only as their race and 56 % who said it was part of both their racial and ethnic background ; 19 % said being Hispanic was part of their ethnic background only .
When asked whether their countries have made progress over the past three decades across a range of issues , the Central and Eastern European publics surveyed feel most positive about issues like education and living standards . But opinions are more divided about progress on law and order and family values , and most say the changes have had a negative impact on health care .
The public continues to say they are hearing mixed news about the nation 's economy : 59 % say they are hearing a mix of both good and bad news about the economy these days , while 32 % say they are hearing mostly bad news and only 6 % say they are hearing mostly good economic news .
The shares of Democrats saying that dealing with global climate change and protecting the environment have increased substantially in recent years . By contrast , attitudes among Republicans have largely held steady . Today , 68 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say addressing climate change should be a top priority for Trump and Congress . Only 18 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say it is a top priority , while 30 % say it should be an `` important but lower priority . '' More than twice as many Democrats ( 81 % ) than Republicans ( 37 % ) say protecting the environment should be a top priority for the president and Congress . The share of Democrats saying this is higher than at any point in the last decade and has increased nine points in the past year alone and 19 points since January 2016 . Republicans ' views have shown less change over the last several years .
The percent of Democratic voters who think of themselves as `` liberals '' has been slowly rising in recent years , while the number of conservative Democrats has declined . In polling conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press from January to September of 2006 , 32 % of Democrats describe themselves as ideologically liberal , while 23 % think of themselves as conservative . This reflects a starkly different balance of opinion from four years ago , when there were as many conservative Democrats as liberals ( 27 % and 26 % , respectively ) .
Among blacks , just 32 % said the country had made a lot of progress since the 1960s and about eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) said a lot more work needs to be done . Whites have a sunnier outlook : About half ( 48 % ) said a lot of progress had been made and , compared with blacks , a smaller share ( 44 % ) said a lot more needs to be done .
Many of the refugees in question are from Muslim-majority countries such as Afghanistan , Iran and Iraq . Australians are divided as to whether Muslims in their country want to adopt Australian customs and way of life : 46 % say no , while 42 % say yes . Americans are evenly split on whether Muslims in the U.S. wish to assimilate , while Europeans are skeptical that Muslims will adopt the customs and traditions of the European countries they now call home .
For the most part , opinions on these issues have changed little in recent years , but support for an assault weapons ban has slipped from 57 % to 52 % since July 2015 , with the decline driven by Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . Currently , 35 % of Republicans and Republican leaners favor an assault weapons ban , while 62 % are opposed . In July 2015 , Republicans were more divided between support ( 44 % ) and opposition ( 51 % ) . Republican opposition to an assault weapons ban is at its highest point since 2013 , the first time Pew Research Center asked this question . Democrats ' views are unchanged over the past year : Currently , 67 % favor an assault weapons ban , while 32 % are opposed .
The survey also shows that roughly eight-in-ten evangelical Protestants ( 79 % ) have a favorable view of the Israeli people , as do seven-in-ten mainline Protestants and about two-thirds of Catholics . People in all three groups are far more likely to say they have a favorable view of the Israeli people than they are to say the same of the Palestinian people .
Overall , nearly one-in-five Americans ( 17 % ) say they have lost their job as a result of the coronavirus outbreak , and about a quarter of Americans ( 23 % ) say they had to take a cut in pay due to reduced hours or demand for their work ; 10 % of Americans say they experienced both a pay cut and job loss . About one-in-five say someone else in their immediate household lost their job ( 18 % ) or lost wages ( 22 % ) . In total , 43 % of Americans say they or someone in their household has lost a job or wages . Job and wage losses continue to be felt more acutely by some groups than others . Hispanic adults ( 43 % ) – particularly those born outside the U.S. – are among the most likely to say they 've personally experienced pay cuts or job loss due to the coronavirus outbreak , as are those ages 18 to 29 ( 40 % ) , adults with lower incomes ( 36 % ) and those with a high school degree or less ( 33 % ) . These patterns mirror previous findings , when the questions were asked in a somewhat different format .
Americans and Germans have vastly different opinions of their bilateral relationship , but they tend to agree on issues such as cooperation with other European allies and support for NATO , according to the results of parallel surveys conducted in the United States by Pew Research Center and in Germany by Körber-Stiftung in the fall of 2018 . Despite the differences of opinion on the overall relationship , Americans and Germans have remarkably similar views when it comes to attitudes toward Russia and China , as well as opinions about the economy .
President Donald Trump 's prolific Twitter output has become source material for news outlets covering him – and during the early days of his administration , stories that included his tweets stood out from those that did not . They were more likely to have a negative assessment of the administration 's words and actions and to include a challenge by the journalist to something Trump or a member of his administration said , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of more than 3,000 stories across 24 media outlets . A recent report from the Center found that about one-in-six news stories about the president or the administration ( 16 % ) during the first 100 days of Trump 's presidency included one of his tweets . Another element measured in the study was whether statements from the journalist or statements cited in a story gave an overall positive or negative evaluation of the Trump administration 's words or actions – or fell somewhere in between . This deeper analysis reveals that the stories that included a direct tweet from Trump were more likely than others to have an overall negative assessment of him or his administration – that is , had at least twice as many negative as positive statements . Just over half of stories that had a tweet from Trump ( 54 % ) had a negative assessment , 12 percentage points higher than stories that did not contain any of his tweets ( 42 % ) . ( Overall , 44 % of all stories studied during the time period studied gave a negative assessment . )
Parents on Facebook are especially avid users : 75 % log on daily , including 51 % who do so several times a day . This is a statistically significant difference when compared with non-parents , of whom 67 % log on to Facebook daily , including 42 % who do so several times a day . Mothers on Facebook are more likely to check the platform several times a day compared with fathers , 56 % vs. 43 % . Parents who use LinkedIn are more likely than non-parents to use the site daily ( 19 % vs. 10 % of non-parents ) . Parents who use Instagram are not as active as non-parent users . Some 54 % of non-parents who use Instagram say they use the site daily , compared with 39 % of parents . Among Twitter and Pinterest users , there are few statistically significant differences in how frequently parents and non-parents use the platforms .
When panelists received invitations via text message and email , they completed the survey earlier in the field period than those who received only email . In fact , in the first 30 minutes after the survey invitations were sent , 15 % of the text message and email group had responded to the survey vs. only 6 % of the email-only group . This has important implications for survey researchers who need to collect data in a short amount of time .
Around four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 41 % ) have experienced some form of online harassment , and an even larger share – 66 % – have seen this happen to others . Pew Research Center measured online harassment by asking respondents if they had personally experienced at least one of six types of behavior online : Offensive name-calling , purposeful embarrassment , physical threats , harassment over a sustained period of time , sexual harassment or stalking . Overall , 41 % of U.S. adults say they have been the target of at least one of these harassing behaviors online , representing a modest increase from 2014 , when 35 % of Americans said they had been harassed online . And while 22 % of Americans say they have experienced only less severe forms of online harassment , such as name-calling or embarrassment , 18 % have been the target of more severe forms of online harassment , including physical threats , sustained harassment , stalking and sexual harassment .
The military continues to receive high marks from the Mexican public . Three-quarters say the military has a good influence on the way things are going in the country ; only 23 % disagree . This opinion remains virtually unchanged from last year , when 72 % praised the military 's influence . Half or more also believe the media , national government , religious leaders and President Peña Nieto have a positive impact on the nation . Meanwhile , fewer than four-in-ten give positive assessments of some other key groups within the country . Institutions and groups receiving the least amount of praise include corporations , the court system , the police , Congress and civil servants . Half or more say each of these has a bad influence on the way things are going in Mexico .
Even so , Latinos say achieving the American dream is n't easy . Only about half ( 51 % ) said they had achieved it so far , and about three-quarters ( 74 % ) said achieving the dream today is hard for people like them .
The political and economic contexts in which people live help explain differences in state-level support for stricter environmental regulations . States that voted for Democratic candidate Barack Obama in the 2012 presidential election are more likely to say that stricter environmental regulations are worth the cost . For example , nearly seven-in-ten adults in Hawaii ( 68 % ) and Vermont ( 70 % ) hold this view , and both are states that backed Obama in the 2012 election by a wide margin . By contrast , those in states that voted for Republican candidate Mitt Romney in 2012 are more divided about the trade-off between the economy and environmental regulation .
The debate in Washington over the fiscal cliff is the public 's top story this week : 40 % paid very close attention to news about the debate over the automatic spending cuts and tax increases that will take effect Jan. 1 unless the president and Congress act . Only about half as many ( 21 % ) followed news about another Washington story very closely – the debate over whether U.N . Ambassador Susan Rice should become secretary of state . Notably , there are only slight partisan differences in interest in the debate over Rice . A quarter of Republicans ( 25 % ) , 21 % of Democrats and 18 % of independents followed this story very closely . Three foreign stories attracted less public interest than news about Susan Rice or the fiscal cliff . Just 15 % of Americans say they followed news about violence in Syria very closely ; about as many very closely tracked news about political turmoil and protests in Egypt ( 14 % ) and the debate at the U.N. over the Palestinian territories ( also 14 % ) .
Trump 's victory another example of how Electoral College wins are bigger than popular vote ones For the fifth time in U.S. history , and the second time this century , a presidential candidate won the White House while losing the popular vote . This mismatch between the electoral and popular votes came about because Trump won several large states ( such as Florida , Pennsylvania and Wisconsin ) by very narrow margins , gaining all their electoral votes in the process , even as Clinton claimed other large states ( such as California , Illinois and New York ) by much wider margins . Trump 's share of the popular vote , in fact , was the seventh-smallest winning percentage since 1828 , when presidential campaigns began to resemble those of today .
A clear challenge for the news media is the deeply rooted sense of bias the public perceives in their reporting . Even as three-quarters of the public gives credit to news organizations for holding our leaders accountable , about the same share ( 74 % ) feels the news media favor one side in their reporting . That far outpaces the portion of online news consumers who sense this about online news they get from friends and family : In that case , just about a third ( 35 % ) describe it as mostly one-sided , while 31 % say it represents more than one side . Another third say they do n't get news from friends and family .
Both Republican and Democratic voters will head to the polls this November with the balance of power in Congress on their minds . Overall , about equal percentages of those who plan to vote for the Republican candidate in their district and those who plan to vote for the Democratic candidate say the issue of which party controls Congress will be a factor in their vote ( 67 % vs. 64 % ) .
Americans think automation will likely disrupt a number of professions – but relatively few think their own jobs are at risk . A majority of U.S. adults say it is at least somewhat likely that jobs such as fast food workers ( 77 % ) and insurance claims processors ( 65 % ) will be mostly performed by machines in their lifetime , while around half expect that the same will be true of jobs such as software engineers and legal clerks . On the other hand , only three-in-ten workers think it 's at least somewhat likely that their own jobs will be mostly done by robots or computers during their lifetimes .
Another Justice Department agency , the Bureau of Justice Statistics , produces its own annual crime report , based on a survey of more than 90,000 households that counts crimes that are n't reported to police in addition to those that are . BJS data show that violent crime and property crime rates fell 26 % and 22 % , respectively , between 2008 and 2015 ( again , the most recent year available ) .
Reflecting a strong U.S. economy , Americans ' policy priorities have changed in recent years . The public now places less priority on economic and job concerns than it did just a few years ago . At the same time , environmental protection and global climate change are rising on the public 's agenda for the president and Congress . For the first time in Pew Research Center surveys dating back nearly two decades , nearly as many Americans say protecting the environment should be a top policy priority ( 64 % ) as say this about strengthening the economy ( 67 % ) . In addition , while a smaller share ( 52 % ) rates dealing with global climate change as a top priority , this is 14 percentage points higher than just three years ago . Today , similar shares rate climate change and improving the job situation ( 49 % ) as top policy priorities for President Donald Trump and Congress . Three years ago , 68 % said jobs were a top priority , compared with just 38 % who named climate change .
Among Warren and Sanders supporters , larger shares rate policy positions as most important ( 38 % and 43 % , respectively ) than cite a candidate 's personal characteristics or electability . While electability is a leading factor for most Democrats , it is less important for Sanders supporters ( only 10 % of whom mention electability ) .
The drop in awareness comes as press attention to the war has waned . According to the News Content Index conducted by the Project for Excellence in Journalism , the percentage of news stories devoted to the war has sharply declined since last year , dropping from an average of 15 % of the newshole in July to just 3 % in February .
Independents who lean to one of the two parties are often much closer to partisans in their views than they are to independents who lean to the other party . For example , while 34 % of independents as a whole said they approved of the way Donald Trump was handling his job as president in a March Pew Research Center survey , the gap between independents who lean to the GOP and those who lean to the Democratic Party ( 73 % vs. 9 % ) was nearly as wide as the gap between Republicans and Democrats ( 85 % vs. 8 % ) .
Most teens report attending religious services with either both ( 40 % ) or one ( 25 % ) of their parents . Another 7 % say they generally attend with other people , such as grandparents , other family members or friends . Just 1 % say they attend worship services alone . Roughly one-quarter say they never attend religious services or declined to answer the question .
There were 10.7 million unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. in 2016 , down from a peak of 12.2 million in 2007 . The total is the lowest since 2004 and is tied to a decline in the number of Mexican unauthorized immigrants during this time . Meanwhile , unauthorized immigrants are increasingly likely to be long-term U.S. residents : Two-thirds of adult immigrants without legal status have lived in the country for more than 10 years .
Roughly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) are very concerned about North Korea having nuclear weapons . And 64 % say that in the event of a serious conflict , the United States should use military force to defend its Asian allies , such as Japan , South Korea or the Philippines , against the Pyongyang regime , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . A further 61 % think sanctions , rather than attempts at closer ties , are the best way to deal with the nuclear threat posed by the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea . When given an option between increasing economic sanctions against Kim Jong Un 's authoritarian regime to deal with its nuclear program or deepening ties with North Korea , 61 % of Americans prefer increasing the already-severe sanctions that are in place . Only 28 % say they want to deal with the nuclear issue by engaging more and deepening ties with the country . Republicans ( 70 % ) are keener on sanctions than Democrats ( 61 % ) , as are older Americans ( 69 % ) compared with young people ( 49 % ) .
A new survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 5 - 8 among 1,003 adults , shows that views of news about the overall economy also have become more positive , although a majority ( 62 % ) continues to describe the news as mixed . For the first time since the Pew Research Center began tracking this question in December 2008 , about as many are hearing mostly good news ( 18 % ) as bad news ( 17 % ) about the economy . In previous surveys , negative views had consistently surpassed positive impressions . Views about economic news – like news about the job situation – have improved dramatically in the last 12 months . In February 2014 , one-third ( 33 % ) were hearing mostly bad news and just 5 % were hearing mostly good economic news . Today , the share hearing bad news has dropped 16 points and good news has risen 13 points . About six-in-ten today ( 62 % ) are still hearing mixed news .
When asked about their own expectations for 2018 , registered voters are about evenly split in terms of who they think will win the majority in the House of Representatives . By comparison , more voters say the GOP will hold a majority in the Senate than expect the Democratic Party to take control of that chamber . Overall , 51 % of registered voters say they think the Republican Party will hold a majority in the House , while slightly fewer ( 46 % ) say the Democratic Party will hold a majority in the 116th Congress . Partisans are about equally confident that their own party will have the majority : 82 % of those supporting Republican candidates say they expect the GOP to hold the House majority ; 77 % of those supporting Democratic candidates say they expect their party to win the most seats .
Interest in the election is as high as it has been in two decades , a separate summer 2020 survey found . For instance , 75 % of voters say they have thought quite a lot about the election – higher than for most other elections dating back to 1992 . Yet voters increasingly view the formerly routine act of casting a ballot as a something of a challenge . In August , just half of registered voters expected it would be easy to vote in the November presidential election , down 35 percentage points since before the midterm elections of 2018 .
In the final two weeks of July , Americans kept a close watch on news about a deadly shooting rampage at a Colorado movie theater , but they also closely tracked news about two long-running stories – the condition of the nation 's economy and the 2012 presidential campaign . News about the shootings , which left 12 dead and dozens injured , topped the News Interest Index for the month and the story is among the most closely followed so far in 2012 . In the days immediately after the rampage – which took place at a midnight showing of `` The Dark Knight Rises '' on July 20 – 48 % said they followed news about the shootings very closely . In the most recent survey , conducted July 26 - 29 among 1,010 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , 41 % say they followed news about the shootings very closely in the previous week . But Americans also continued to follow news about the condition of the nation 's economy and the 2012 presidential election . In the July 19 - 22 survey , for example , 39 % said they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely , while 35 % said they followed news about the presidential elections this closely .
While U.S. Jews have a strong attachment to Israel , they are divided in their assessment of Trump 's handling of the Israeli-Palestinian issue , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Roughly four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they think Trump is favoring the Israelis too much , while a similar share ( 47 % ) say he is striking the right balance between the Israelis and Palestinians . The rest either say he is favoring the Palestinians too much ( 6 % ) or they do n't know ( 4 % ) . By comparison , Christians in the United States are more likely to say Trump is striking the right balance between the Israelis and Palestinians ( 59 % ) than to say Trump favors the Israelis too much ( 26 % ) . Among evangelical Protestants , 72 % say they think Trump strikes the right balance between the Israelis and Palestinians , and just 15 % say Trump favors the Israelis too much .
The Latino population in the United States has reached nearly 58 million in 2016 and has been the principal driver of U.S. demographic growth , accounting for half of national population growth since 2000 . The Latino population itself has evolved during this time , with changes in immigration , education and other characteristics .
Just 19 % of Americans say they can trust the federal government always or most of the time . That 's among the lowest levels in over 50 years . The long-term erosion of public trust is mirrored by a steep decline in the belief that the government is run for the benefit of all Americans .
Employment for foreign-born Hispanics increased at annual rate of 3.3 % in the first quarter of 2007 ( Figure 6 ) . By this measure as well the employment growth was slower than for any other first quarter , indeed for any quarter , in the preceding three years . On average from the beginning of 2004 to the end of 2006 employment increased by an annual rate 6.6 % .
All of this adds up to generally less intense use of the internet by rural Americans than others . This shows up in several ways : the likelihood that a person goes online on a given day , the likelihood a person goes online several times on a typical day , and the number of online activities engaged in on the typical day . At an individual level , this means that a rural broadband user should be about as likely as a suburban or urban internet user to be a heavy internet user . As the figure below shows , rural broadband internet users are nearly as likely as non-rural counterparts to use the internet on a given or go online several times a day . The percentage point differences between rural and non-rural broadband users are not statistically significant .
The United States stands out to many around the world as the country their own nation can rely on most , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Pluralities or majorities in around half of the 17 countries where an open-ended question was asked named the U.S. as their most dependable ally going forward . At the same time , substantial shares of people in some countries also perceive Washington as their greatest threat .
Attention to the debate over Medicare is limited so far . Just one-in-five Americans ( 20 % ) say they have heard a lot about a proposal to change Medicare into a program that would give future participants a credit toward purchasing private health insurance coverage ; half ( 50 % ) have heard a little about it , and 28 % have heard nothing at all . Awareness is particularly low among younger Americans – fully 41 % of adults under 30 , and 34 % of those ages 30 - 49 , have heard nothing at all about this proposal . And politically , Democrats are more likely than Republicans to say they have heard a lot about this proposal ( 26 % vs. 16 % ) . The lack of awareness goes a long way toward explaining some of the contradictory views many Americans hold on this issue . In particular , people under age 30 are the only major demographic group in which significantly more say they favor ( 46 % ) than oppose ( 28 % ) this proposed change . Yet this same cohort is far more likely to say the Democratic Party ( 49 % ) not the Republican Party ( 34 % ) can do a better job on this issue .
And when it comes to the global balance of power , two-thirds of Chinese said in 2015 that their nation would eventually replace the U.S. – or had already replaced it – as the world 's leading superpower . Americans , on the other hand , were split . About half ( 48 % ) believed China would never surpass the U.S. as the world 's leading superpower , while 46 % said that China would eventually replace the U.S. or already had . By contrast , in 2009 , a majority ( 57 % ) of Americans thought China would never overtake the U.S. as the top global power .
In addition to holding the EU in low regard , Greeks are the most critical of EU policy on a range of issues . More than nine-in-ten Greeks disapprove of the EU 's handling of the refugee crisis and European economic issues . A median of more than seven-in-ten Europeans disapprove of the EU 's handling of refugees and a majority disapprove of its handling of economic issues , a far cry from the near universal disapproval in Greece .
E-book reading is rising but just 4 % of Americans are `` e-book only '' readers . The incidence of e-book reading has been steadily climbing during the course of our libraries research . It now stands at 28 % of the population who have ever read an e-book . But this has not really affected the number of those who read printed books . The vast majority of e-book readers also enjoy printed books .
As the above chart from the Economic Policy Institute ( prepared before today 's jobs report ) shows , the economy is still some 7 million jobs short of what it would need for the employment-to-population ratio to reach its pre-recession level . EPI economist Heidi Shierholz commented , `` We are far , far from healthy labor market conditions . ''
We looked at data compiled by Eurostat , the EU 's statistical agency , on asylum applications to the 28 nations in the bloc ( along with four other European countries that follow the EU 's rules for handling asylum requests ) . So far this year , according to the data , migrants have their best chance of gaining asylum if they ( a ) are from Syria , Eritrea or Iraq , and ( b ) apply in Bulgaria , Denmark or Malta . Syrians are the biggest single group of asylum applicants this year , comprising about 20 % of the total ( though some refugees from other countries reportedly are claiming to be Syrian , in the hopes of improving their chances of gaining asylum ) . More than half the asylum seekers , in fact , are from just five countries : Syria , Kosovo , Afghanistan , Albania and Iraq . Most ( 72 % ) are male , and more than half ( 54 % ) are ages 18 to 34 ; men in that age bracket account for fully 43 % of asylum applicants .
When asked to assess the impact of their cell phone on various aspects of daily life , cell owners see some clear benefits — particularly when it comes to maintaining connections to friends and family : When it comes to their attitudes compared with other types of cell owners , these groups are more positively inclined towards the benefits of mobile devices , but also more attuned to the potential downsides of ubiquitous mobility . They are more likely to say that their cell phone saves them time because they always have instant access to information , and more likely to say that they `` ca n't imagine living without '' their cell phone . They also respond positively to the notion that their phone helps them be connected with others , schedule their lives , and be productive when they might not be otherwise . At the same time , these groups are also more likely to worry that they are spending too much time with their phone , to say that their phone makes it harder to focus on a single task without being distracted , or to say that their phone makes it harder to give people their undivided attention .
Overall , a 64 % -majority continues to say they approve of the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria , while just 28 % say they disapprove . Support for the U.S. military effort has been steady over the course of 2015 .
The number of Hispanics of Puerto Rican origin living in Florida has surpassed 1 million for the first time , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data , more than doubling the state 's Puerto Rican population over the past 14 years .
Events of the last few years have taken their toll on U.S.-Canadian relations , but cross-border ties still remain stronger than U.S. ties with Europe . The image of the U.S. in Canada slipped modestly with the war in Iraq , from a 72 % favorability rating before the war to 63 % after the conflict , a 9 point drop . But compared with the reaction among some other American allies , this decline in support was relatively modest . U.S. favorability fell 20 points in France and 16 points in Germany over the same period . Similarly , five-in-ten Canadians ( 54 % ) still think they should maintain close security and diplomatic ties with the United States . Only two-in-ten ( 23 % ) of the French and four-in-ten ( 43 % ) of the Germans agree .
Two-in-three Pakistani Muslims say Ahmadis are not Muslims , according to a Pew Research poll conducted in November 2011 . Just 7 % accept Ahmadis as fellow Muslims , while 26 % do not offer a response or say they do n't know .
Taking a very early look ahead to November 's general election , the survey also asked registered voters across the political spectrum to predict their vote – whether it would be for Donald Trump or the yet-to-be-determined Democratic nominee . Similar to other recent elections , most white evangelical Protestants say they will definitely ( 59 % ) or probably ( 17 % ) vote for Trump , and just 14 % say they will probably or definitely vote for the Democrat . White Protestant voters who do not identify as born again or evangelical also are more likely than not to say they will vote for Trump in November .
There are transatlantic differences about defense spending . Successive American presidents have called on NATO allies to spend more on security , and Trump has repeatedly pressed the issue . As our 2017 poll shows , there are significant differences between Americans and Germans on this topic , as well as significant partisan differences within the U.S. A plurality of Americans ( 45 % ) say the country 's allies in Europe should spend more on their national defense , while 37 % say spending levels should stay about the same and only 9 % think they should be decreased . But there is a wide partisan gap on this issue , with 63 % of Republicans calling for more spending from allies , compared with just 33 % of Democrats . When Germans were asked about their own defense spending , only 32 % of Germans want to see it increased ; roughly half say it should stay where it is , while 13 % want it cut .
The media 's newfound focus on the economy as a central campaign issue also coincided with increasingly unflattering coverage of McCain . The week before the Lehman Brothers collapse , McCain was benefiting from a post-convention bounce that was reflected in the tone of his media coverage . From Sept. 8 - 14 , 37 % of campaign narrative focused on the senator was positive in tone , while 32 % was negative ( another 31 % was neutral ) .
People in the Asia-Pacific region are generally negative in their views of China , and attitudes in many surveyed countries there have grown more negative in recent years . These countries are more critical of investment from China . Roughly half or more in each Asia-Pacific nation surveyed say Chinese investment is a bad thing because it gives China too much influence , ranging from 48 % of Indonesians to 75 % of Japanese . South Korea and Indonesia stand out as two countries in which fewer today see benefits from China 's growing economy than said the same five years ago . China 's neighbors are especially wary of its military growth . A median of 79 % across the region say China 's growing military strength is bad for their country , including nine-in-ten in Japan and South Korea . This depth of concern with China 's growth is mirrored in the relative primacy these countries place on their relations with the United States . In each country in the region , more name the U.S. as their most dependable ally than any other country in an open-ended question , including around two-thirds or more in Japan ( 63 % ) , the Philippines ( 64 % ) and South Korea ( 71 % ) . Each country in the region also prefers strong economic ties with the U.S. ( a median of 64 % ) rather than China ( 26 % ) – and often by a wide margin . In Australia and South Korea , this is a reversal of 2015 opinion , when more preferred close economic relations with China .
The share of Americans ages 18 and older with at least some education beyond high school has risen since 2009 , according to the Census Bureau – from 55 % that year to 58 % in 2014 – though that 's a continuation of a trend that dates back to at least 2001 . But student performance at the elementary and secondary levels has n't changed much , according to data from the National Assessment of Educational Progress . The share of eighth-graders scoring at or above the `` proficient '' level in reading went from 32 % in 2009 to 34 % in 2015 , for instance , and the share scoring at or above proficiency in math went from 34 % in 2009 to 33 % last year . Among fourth-graders , 36 % scored at or above the proficiency level in reading last year , versus 33 % in 2009 . For math proficiency , the shares were 40 % and 39 % , respectively .
The share of adults who live in middle-income households has eroded over time , from 61 % in 1970 to 51 % in 2013 . Although the share is unchanged in recent years – it was the same in 2010 – the erosion over the last four decades has been sure and steady , through economic ups and downs . If past trends continue to hold , there is little reason to believe the recovery from the Great Recession will eventually lead to a rebound in the share of adults in middle-income households . The shrinking in the middle of the income distribution is not all bad news , however . Yes , the share of adults living in lower-income households has increased , up from 25 % in 1970 to 29 % in 2013 . But more adults now live in upper-income households , up from 14 % in 1970 to 20 % in 2013 .
When it comes to socializing and communicating with friends , young Latinos ( ages 16 to 25 ) make extensive use of mobile technology . Half say they text message ( 50 % ) their friends daily , and 45 % say they talk daily with friends on a cell phone . Other communication platforms are less widely used for socializing . For example , fewer than one-in-five young Latinos ( 18 % ) say they talk daily with their friends on a landline or home phone , and just 10 % say they email their friends daily . These findings are based on a new analysis of data from a nationwide telephone survey of Latinos conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center .
Seven-in-ten Democrats ( 70 % ) and 65 % of independents regard the economic system as unfair . Republicans are divided : 49 % say the system unfairly favors powerful interests , while 47 % say it is fair to most Americans . Majorities across income categories view the system as unfair . Most Americans say it is still possible to get ahead , despite the perceived unfairness of the economic system . Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) say `` most people who want to get ahead can make it if they 're willing to work hard . '' A third ( 33 % ) says that `` hard work and determination are no guarantee of success for most people . ''
Middle Eastern views of China are mixed . In both Egypt and Lebanon , positive views outweigh negative ones , but in Jordan negative ratings are slightly more common . Similarly , opinions are mixed in Latin America , and many in the region are unable to offer either a positive or negative assessment . Majorities in only nine of the 23 countries surveyed express a favorable view of the Chinese people . Some of the highest ratings come from neighboring countries , including Pakistan ( 78 % favorable ) , Australia ( 73 % ) and Indonesia ( 59 % ) . Elsewhere in Asia , views are mixed , in South Korea and India , and decidedly negative in Japan , where 73 % have an unfavorable opinion , by far the most negative assessment of the Chinese people in the survey .
A majority of voters ( 58 % ) who currently plan to support either Trump or Clinton say they do n't mind if people know who they support but that they do n't go out of their way to say it . A third say that they are `` pretty outspoken '' with others about their support , while far fewer ( 7 % ) say that they would rather other people not know that they support one of these candidates . There are no significant differences between Clinton and Trump voters on their willingness to share who they support . Majorities of both groups ( 60 % of Clinton supporters and 57 % of Trump supporters ) do n't mind if others know but do n't go out of their way to say so .
In 2016 voters were about evenly divided in the share saying that the growing number of newcomers strengthens American society ( 46 % ) and the share who said they threaten traditional American customs and values ( 50 % ) . Today , six-in-ten American voters ( 60 % ) say that newcomers strengthen American society and 37 % say they threaten traditional customs and values . Supporters of both major party candidates this year are more likely than 2016 supporters to have positive views of immigrants to the United States , but the gap between supporters of the Republican and Democratic candidates is little different than it was four years ago . Today , more than eight-in-ten Biden supporters ( 84 % ) say the growing share of newcomers in the U.S. strengthens American society , up from 71 % among Clinton supporters in 2016 . By comparison , a much smaller share of Trump supporters ( 32 % ) view immigration as strengthening society . Still , that is up from just 19 % among Trump supporters in 2016 .
Most adults with a background that includes more than one race do not consider themselves `` multiracial . '' In 2015 , 61 % of those who reported two or more races for themselves , their parents or their grandparents said they did n't consider themselves to be multiracial . This was especially the case for those who did n't select two or more races for themselves but who were considered to have a multiracial background based on their parents ' or grandparents ' races . Among those who chose two or more categories when asked about their own race , 36 % said they did n't consider themselves multiracial , suggesting that the boxes people check do n't always align with how they identify .
The Hispanic population , 42 million in 2005 , will rise to 128 million in 2050 , tripling in size . Latinos will be 29 % of the population , compared with 14 % in 2005 . ( Figure 6 ) Latinos will account for 60 % of the nation 's population growth from 2005 to 2050 . The black population , 38 million in 2005 , will grow to 59 million in 2050 , a rise of 56 % . In 2050 , the nation 's population will be 13.4 % black , compared with 12.8 % in 2005 . The Asian population , 14 million in 2005 , will grow to 41 million in 2050 , nearly tripling in size . In 2050 , the nation 's population will be 9 % Asian , compared with 5 % in 2005 . Most Asians in the United States were foreign born in 2005 ( 58 % ) , but by 2050 , fewer than half ( 47 % ) will be . The white , non-Hispanic population , 199 million in 2005 , will grow to 207 million in 2050 , a 4 % increase . In 2050 , 47 % of the U.S. population will be non-Hispanic white , compared with 67 % in 2005 .
Additionally , many Arabs in the Palestinian territories are convinced that armed struggle is the best way for them to achieve statehood . In 2015 , 38 % said this was the case , with 22 % preferring negotiations , 20 % advocating nonviolent resistance , and an additional 16 % preferring a combination of these options . Among Palestinians living in Gaza , half say armed struggle is the best way for Palestinians to achieve statehood .
The minority groups that carried President Obama to victory yesterday by giving him 80 % of their votes are on track to become a majority of the nation 's population by 2050 , according to projections by the Pew Research Center . They currently make up 37 % of the population , and they cast a record 28 % of the votes in the 2012 presidential election , according to the election exit polls.By 2050 , the Hispanic share of the U.S. population could be as high as 29 % , up from 17 % now . The black proportion of the population is projected to be unchanged at 13 % , while the Asian share is projected to increase to 9 % from its current 5 % . Non-Hispanic whites , 63 % of the current population , will decrease to half or slightly less than half of the population by 2050 .
As Congress continues to debate the budget and government spending , majorities are critical of the way that both parties handle these issues . Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) say the Republican Party is `` too willing to cut government programs even when they work . '' About as many ( 61 % ) say the Democratic Party `` too often sees government as the only way to solve problems . ''
Brazilians are also concerned about the impact that hosting the World Cup , which begins June 12 , will have on their country . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) think hosting the event is a bad thing for Brazil because it takes money away from schools , health care and other public services — a common theme in the protests that have swept the country since June 2013 . Just 34 % think the World Cup , which Brazil will host for the first time since 1950 and which could attract more than 3.5 million people to the nation 's twelve host cities , will create more jobs and help the economy .
In late 2002 , in the run-up to U.S. military conflict , it was older adults who were the most dovish about military action in Iraq . While adults under 30 favored military action by three-to-one ( 69 % favor-23 % oppose ) , adults 65 and older offered less support ( 51 % -31 % ) . And during the past decade of Pew Research polling , adults 65 and older consistently have been the least likely to say the U.S. made the right decision in using military force in Iraq .
Immigrant and second-generation self-identified Hispanics ( 57 % and 50 % respectively ) are most likely to say their parents talked often about their pride in their country of origin roots . But by the third generation , only 33 % say their parents talked often about their pride in their roots while growing up .
Roughly a fifth of MEPs were `` hard '' or `` soft '' Euroskeptics from 1979 to 2009 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of EU election results . In 2014 , the Euroskeptic share jumped to 29 % , or 221 MEPs ; it 's now 30 % , due to membership changes and shifts in political groupings . In the Greek and UK delegations , in fact , Euroskeptics outnumber pro-EU members .
Among the eight countries with sizeable Muslim populations surveyed by the Pew Global Attitudes Project in 2008 , Hamas received a positive rating in only one , Jordan , where 55 % voiced a favorable view of the organization while 37 % expressed an unfavorable opinion . Still , Jordanian attitudes toward Hamas were less positive than in 2007 , when 62 % gave the group a favorable rating , and 36 % a negative one . Hamas ' image also declined in neighboring Egypt . In 2007 , Egyptians were split ( 49 % favorable , 49 % unfavorable ) . By 2008 , however , only 42 % had a favorable opinion , while 50 % held a negative view .
Democrats are far more likely than Republicans to favor making it easy for every citizen to vote . More than eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 84 % ) say everything possible should be done to make it easy for everyone to vote , compared with a smaller share of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 48 % ) . A majority of Republicans and GOP-leaning independents ( 57 % ) say changing rules to make voting easier would make elections less secure , while 76 % of Democrats say this would not be the case .
President Obama is a negative factor for many voters . In our survey last month , 32 % of registered voters said they thought of their vote for Congress as a vote against Obama , while 20 % saw it as a vote for Obama . The rest said Obama would not be a factor in their decision . Obama has even lost ground among fellow Democrats . About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) voters who plan to support the Democratic candidate in the congressional elections said they considered their vote a vote `` for '' Obama , down from 53 % in the 2010 midterms .
When asked about the next five years , Asian and African publics are the most optimistic among emerging and developing countries . People in the Middle East are the least hopeful about the future .
Amid debates about the impact of privilege and inequality in the country , a Pew Research Center survey conducted in late 2018 asked U.S. adults how they would compare their advantages in life with those who are about their same age . Overall , 29 % said they have had more advantages in life than others their age ; 26 % felt they have had fewer advantages ; and 45 % said they have had about as many advantages .
Newsroom employees are more likely than all U.S. workers to live in the Northeast . Roughly a quarter ( 24 % ) of all newsroom employees work in this region , compared with 18 % of workers overall . They are less likely to live in the South : A third of newsroom employees live in the South , compared with 37 % of workers overall . About the same share of newsroom employees and all workers live in the West ( 22 % vs. 23 % ) and Midwest ( 20 % vs. 22 % ) . Employment at online news outlets is especially concentrated in the Northeast . About four-in-ten newsroom employees who work in internet publishing live in the Northeast ( 41 % ) – roughly twice the share of newsroom employees in all industries combined . Online newsroom employees are also more likely to live in the West ( 28 % ) than those working in other news industries . By comparison , the regional breakdown of those working in the newspaper and broadcasting industries is similar to that of newsroom employees overall .
There continue to be wide demographic differences on how much partisan control of Congress matters . Just 48 % of voters younger than 30 say it `` really matters '' which party wins control of Congress . The share placing high importance of partisan control increases with age , reaching 83 % among voters 65 and older .
The intensity of that divide was apparent in a survey conducted in April 2014 , leading up to last year 's midterm elections . About two-thirds ( 64 % ) of Republican registered voters said a candidate 's position on the ACA was very important to their vote , compared with 52 % of Democrats and 45 % of independents .
Digital advertising continues to grow as a proportion of total advertising revenue , a trend driven in large part by growth in advertising on mobile devices . The estimates below are for all digital advertising revenue , not just for news outlets , and thus are an indicator of the general direction of the economic health of the digital realm rather than the digital news sector specifically . ( There is no publicly available economic data specifically for all digital-native news outlets studied above . ) In 2018 , according to eMarketer estimates , digital advertising grew to $ 109 billion , an increase from $ 88 billion in 2017 . It was estimated to comprise 49 % of all advertising revenue , up from 43 % in 2017 .
A decade after the 2008 financial crisis , the public is about evenly split on whether the U.S. economic system is more secure today than it was then . About half of Americans ( 48 % ) say the system is more secure today than it was before the 2008 crisis , while roughly as many ( 46 % ) say it is no more secure . Opinions have changed since 2015 and 2013 , when majorities said the economic system was no more secure than it had been prior to the crisis ( 63 % in both years ) , according to the new survey , conducted Sept. 18 - 24 among 1,754 adults .
The months-long BP story was one of the two biggest stories of the year in terms of news interest . In the week ending July 25 , 2010 – shortly after BP said it had capped the leak and just before the resignation of CEO Tony Hayward – fully 59 % of American adults were following the Gulf leak very closely . The only story as closely watched in 2010 was that of another disaster , the January earthquake in Haiti ( 60 % paid close attention at the peak ) . Public interest went hand-in-hand with the vast amount of news coverage of the spill . The Gulf spill was the most covered news story in nine weeks out of a 14-week period studied by Pew Research Center . Our study of media coverage from April 20 to July 28 , 2010 , showed that the spill accounted for 22 % of the newshole ( almost double the next-biggest story ) and generated 31 % of cable news airtime . Public interest in the news remained high , even in weeks when news coverage dropped off ; in 13 of those 14 weeks , the public followed the story of the spill more closely than any other .
One story where the public and the media were often in sync was the economy . Coverage of economic news was consistently high from week to week and cumulatively represented the single largest story over the course of 2010 . Public interest was also notably consistent . In every week public interest in economic news was measured , at least 30 % of Americans said they were following reports about the condition of the economy very closely , and , aside from periods of peak interest in Haiti , the health care debate and the Gulf oil spill , at least 10 % said the economy was the story they were following more closely than any other . Economic news received the most or second most public attention in 32 of the 45 weeks in which public attention to the topic was tracked .
Fears of a deeper recession , job losses and the Detroit-bailout drama made themes about the economy the biggest story the first week of December . As Obama unveiled his national security team , coverage of the incoming administration was the No . 2 storyline from Dec. 1 - 7 . The challenges that team will face were highlighted by the other major story last week , the fallout from the Mumbai massacre that inflamed international tensions and resurrected terrorism fears . As more grim signs of a financial meltdown emerged , the troubled economy was easily the top story the week of Dec. 1 - 7 . In its various facets , the economy filled about 40 % of the newshole , a high level of coverage for that topic . The largest component was the financial crisis itself , which accounted for 20 % of the newshole . That was followed closely by the troubled US auto industry , at 17 % . To a lesser extent , the economic news also included mixed reports about holiday shopping — most notably Black Friday and Cyber Monday — and the only truly cheerful tidings for consumers , plunging prices at the gas pump .
Women are in the majority in jobs that draw most heavily on either social or fundamental skills . In 2018 , women made up 52 % of employment in jobs in which either social or fundamental skills are most important – such as legal , teaching and counseling occupations ( up from roughly 40 % in 1980 ) . Women also greatly raised their share of employment in occupations in which analytical skills are of greatest importance – such as accounting and dentistry – from 27 % in 1980 to 42 % in 2018 . The increase in the share of women in these high-skill occupations was much greater than the increase in their share of employment overall , from 43 % in 1980 to 47 % in 2018 .
Russians are increasingly likely to say their country plays a more important role in the world today than it did 10 years ago . Overall , 72 % of Russians say this now compared to 59 % who did in 2017 . Only 10 % believe Russia is less important .
Asked for a broad perspective about the civility or incivility they have either witnessed or encountered during their online tenure , 76 % of internet users said the people they witnessed or encountered online were mostly kind and 13 % said people were mostly unkind . People were also considerably more likely to say they themselves had been treated kindly than they had been treated unkindly or attacked . And internet users were more likely to say online group behavior they had seen had been helpful , rather than harmful .
In the survey , which was in the field as Obama appeared on the Sunday talk shows on Sept. 20 , Americans continue to say they are highly interested in the health care debate : 36 % say it was the story they followed most closely last week , more than double the percentage for any other major story . But despite that interest , relatively few ( 19 % ) say they heard a lot last week about Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus unveiling details of his health care proposal . The debate over health care reform got more media coverage than any other story , taking up 17 % of the newshole analyzed by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . That was down from 32 % of coverage the previous week when Obama delivered his address to Congress . The president also continued to be the top newsmaker as measured by PEJ .
Nearly half of U.S. voters ( 46 % ) expect Trump 's election to lead to worse race relations , while just 25 % say they will improve ( 26 % say there will be no difference ) . By contrast , after Obama 's election eight years ago , 52 % of voters expected race relations to improve , while just 9 % said they would be worse ; roughly a third ( 36 % ) said there would be little change .
`` Interestingly , when we examine the individual states ' trends in per capita corruption convictions , we find the trends tend to be increasing both before and after casinos are legalized and begin operating , '' they report in the latest issue of the journal Applied Economics .
Catholics ' views on these and similar questions may reflect the fact that American Catholics themselves are experiencing family life in all its modern complexity . One-quarter of Catholics say they have been divorced , including one-in-ten who are now remarried . And fully 44 % of U.S. Catholics say they have lived together with a romantic partner outside of marriage at some point in their lives , including 9 % who are currently cohabiting .
Overall , independents are divided in preferences about the size of government and views about government regulation of business . Republican-leaning independents largely prefer a smaller government providing fewer services ; 78 % favor smaller government , compared with just 17 % who favor bigger government with more services . The views of GOP leaners are nearly identical to the opinions of those who affiliate with the GOP ( 74 % prefer smaller government ) . Like Democrats , most Democratic-leaning independents prefer bigger government .
Around seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 72 % ) say social media companies have too much power and influence in politics today , according to the June survey . Much smaller shares say these companies have about the right amount of ( 21 % ) or not enough ( 6 % ) political power and influence .
Recent events in Ukraine , including the ouster of the pro-Russian President Viktor F. Yanukovych and moves by Vladimir Putin 's military forces to seize control of the Crimea region , have brought renewed attention to Russia 's historical claims in its former Soviet empire . To that effect , a spring 2012 survey by the Pew Research Center found that 44 % of Russians agreed that it is natural for Russia to have an empire . Two decades prior , with the Soviet Union on the verge of collapse , only 37 % shared this view . Thoughts of empire might help explain why in 2011 , 20 years after the dissolution of the Soviet Union , half of Russians agreed that it was a great misfortune that the USSR no longer existed . Russians aged 50 and older tended to express more longing for the Soviet era than did those under 50 .
Most Hispanics disapprove . When asked about the Obama administration 's handling of deportations in a late 2011 Pew Research Center survey , 59 % said they disapproved while 27 % said they approved . According to the same survey , 41 % of all Hispanics , and 55 % of Hispanic immigrants , were aware that more immigrants had been deported under the Obama Administration than the Bush Administration .
Attitudes are mixed on immigrants ' willingness to adopt the destination country 's customs or wanting to be distinct from its society . A median of 49 % among countries surveyed say immigrants want to be distinct from the host country 's society , while a median of 45 % say immigrants want to adopt the host country 's customs and way of life .
These findings come from Pew Research Center 's new survey of 1,001 U.S. Muslim adults , conducted Jan. 23 to May 2 , 2017 . The poll follows earlier Pew Research Center surveys of American Muslims in 2007 and 2011 . The new survey indicates that the U.S. Muslim community is facing numerous challenges . Three-quarters ( 75 % ) of Muslim respondents , for example , say there is `` a lot '' of discrimination against Muslims in the U.S. ( a view shared by 69 % of Americans in general ) . Muslim women are more likely than Muslim men to hold this view ( 83 % versus 68 % ) .
The round of Republican primaries held Tuesday has been headlined as a tide-turning victory of the GOP establishment over Tea Party insurgents , with the most notable one being the win scored in Kentucky by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell over a well-funded opponent . But whatever yesterday 's votes portend , polls have been showing a decline in Tea Party support among Republicans since their peak of influence in 2010 . In asking Republicans whether they agree or disagree with the Tea Party , Pew Research surveys found that agreement has fallen from 48 % in March 2010 to 33 % in our most recent poll conducted in late April this year . At one point agreement with the Tea Party dipped to 28 % in May 2013 , during the long budget standoff between congressional Republican leaders and the White House .
Lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender adults are generally less religious than U.S. society as a whole , a recent Pew Research Center survey found . About half ( 51 % ) declare any religious affiliation at all , versus close to eight-in-ten U.S. adults ; about a fifth ( 17 % ) are both religiously affiliated and say religion is very important in their lives , compared with just over half ( 54 % ) of the general public .
By contrast , the president is viewed much more negatively in Pakistan , the next stop on Bush 's South Asian trip . Just 10 % of Pakistanis express a great deal or some confidence in Bush to do the right thing regarding world affairs . Morocco ( 9 % ) , Turkey ( 8 % ) , and Jordan ( 1 % ) were the only countries surveyed to voice less confidence in Bush than do the people of Pakistan .
Among 37 countries surveyed globally in 2017 , Trump received his lowest ratings on this question in Mexico , where 93 % said they have no confidence in the U.S. leader . His proposed wall on the U.S.-Mexico border was also particularly unpopular in the United States ' southern neighbor , where 94 % said they disapproved of the project . The border wall was similarly unpopular across the other six Latin American countries surveyed , with a regional median of 83 % saying they opposed it .
When asked to rate key institutions in their countries , people generally assign high marks to the military , with a median of 79 % saying it has a good influence on the way things are going in their country . But most major national organizations and groups , such as the media , religious leaders , banks , corporations , the national government and civil servants also get positive marks . Emerging and developing publics are less enamored with their court systems – the only institution polled which receives support from less than half of respondents .
While the 2016 elections have done little to brighten the public 's overall outlook or raise expectations for partisan cooperation , the Republican Party has seen its standing improve in the wake of Trump 's presidential win and the GOP maintaining control of Congress . Today , about as many hold a favorable ( 47 % ) as unfavorable ( 49 % ) view of the Republican Party . This is the first time views of the GOP have been about as favorable as unfavorable since 2011 . The Democratic Party is rated slightly more positively ( 51 % favorable , 45 % unfavorable ) than the GOP , but the gap in assessments of the two parties is much narrower than it was just a few weeks before the election , in October 2016 . Furthermore , the GOP has drawn even with the Democrats as the party seen as `` more concerned with the needs of people like me : '' 45 % say this phrase better describes the Democratic Party , while 44 % now say it better describes the Republican Party . In July 2015 , far more said the Democratic Party ( 53 % ) than the Republican Party ( 31 % ) was better described by this phrase .
The December 2017 survey asked people if they were active in 10 specific types of community groups and organizations : church groups , hobby groups , charitable or volunteer organizations , professional associations , community groups , book clubs , parent groups or youth organizations , social clubs , performing arts groups and veterans ' groups . It also gave respondents the chance to say they are involved in some `` other '' type of group or organization ( beyond the ones listed above ) .
The troubles facing the U.S. auto industry attracted similar interest , with 31 % saying they followed those stories very closely . Interest in the auto industry 's problems was comparable in late February ( 33 % very closely ) , when General Motors and Chrysler were seeking billions in federal loans to avoid bankruptcy . On this scale , Obama 's trip measured similar levels of interest as the horrific shootings at an immigration services center in Binghamton , N.Y. , last Friday . A quarter say they followed news of the trip very closely , compared with 26 % for the New York killings that occurred the day the survey went into the field . The incident took place late in the week and took up 4 % of the newshole . North Korea 's testing of a long range missile was followed very closely by 23 % of the public . That is similar to the share of the public that followed North Korea 's steps toward halting its nuclear weapons program last June ( 19 % very closely ) . Only 8 % say the missile test was the story they followed most closely last week . Also occurring late in the week , the missile test made up 2 % of the newshole .
The median annual income for households headed by a Filipino-American adult was $ 75,000 , well above the average for all Asian Americans and the U.S. population at large . But Filipino Americans also have larger households on average : 3.4 persons , compared with 3.1 for all U.S. Asians and 2.6 for the overall U.S. population .
The Chinese are as upbeat about the Olympics as they are about their national economy . Fully 96 % believe China 's hosting of the games will be a success , and 56 % say it will be very successful . While this survey was in the field , the Olympic torch relay was being hounded by demonstrations in Britain , France , the United States , Argentina and elsewhere , and these protests received considerable coverage in the Western media . However in China , press coverage of the relay might have been more positive , because despite the negative international publicity generated by these events , nearly all of those surveyed think the games will improve China 's global profile – a remarkably high 93 % say the Olympics will help the country 's image around the world . Most Chinese not only see the Olympics as important for their country , they also feel a personal connection to the games . Roughly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) say the Olympics are important to them personally , and 90 % feel this way in the host city , Beijing .
These days , Facebook 's strongest growth is coming from overseas . The monthly user base ( defined as those who accessed the site at least once in the previous 30 days ) grew just 4.1 % in the U.S. and Canada last year , according to the company 's annual 10-K report . In Europe , it grew by 8 % ; in Asia , 23.5 % ( including Australia and New Zealand ) ; and in the rest of the world , it grew by 23.7 % . American and Canadian users , in fact , now make up less than a sixth of Facebook 's total user base .
Nearly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say the campaign was their top story , while 16 % say they most closely followed news about the economy , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted May 17 - 20 among 1,004 adult by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Election news topped coverage as well , accounting for 17 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . General news about the U.S. economy made up 7 % of coverage , while related news specifically about the multi-billion dollar losses at banking giant J.P. Morgan Chase accounted for another 7 % . In terms of news interest , 7 % say they followed news about the troubles at J.P. Morgan most closely last week .
Today , about three-quarters of Republicans ( 77 % ) are more concerned that the military action wo n't go far enough ( 20 % say their bigger concern is that the U.S. will go too far ) . By contrast , 64 % of Democrats say the bigger worry is that the U.S. will go too far in getting involved and 30 % are more concerned about not going far enough . Independents are split , with 47 % expressing each concern .
After showing some signs of improvement in the summer , ratings of the national economy have once again turned more negative . Nearly half of Americans ( 48 % ) currently rate economic conditions as poor , up from 32 % in September and a recent low of 29 % in June . And just 13 % now say the economy is in excellent or good condition , down from 19 % last month and 23 % in June . While current economic ratings have worsened from a month ago , there is little change in the public 's economic outlook . Americans are about as likely to say conditions a year from now will be worse ( 28 % ) as to say they will be better ( 25 % ) , with another 44 % saying conditions will be the same . This outlook is little changed from September , but more negative than in June , when more thought conditions would improve than worsen by a 33 % to 19 % margin .
Americans , however , split about evenly on this question : 42 % say they first think of themselves as Christians versus 48 % who think of themselves primarily as Americans – a divide close to that found among French Muslims . Muslims in Europe are most sharply distinguished from the majority populations on opinions about external issues – America , the war on terrorism , Iran , the Middle East .2 European Muslims give the United States lower favorability ratings than do general publics in Europe , and in particular , they give the American people lower ratings . The war on terror is extremely unpopular among minority Muslim populations – German Muslims register the highest level of support , at 31 % .
Researchers disagree about why people leave the labor force and how likely they are ever to return . In a report issued in February , the Congressional Budget Office estimated that about half the decline in labor-force participation was due to long-term demographic trends , a third was due to cyclical weaknesses in the labor market , and the rest a consequence of `` unusually protracted weakness in the demand for labor [ which ] appears to have led some workers to become discouraged and permanently drop out of the labor force , '' such as by taking early retirement or signing up for Social Security disability benefits . But two Federal Reserve economists have argued that cyclical factors , rather than demographic shifts , account for the bulk of the drop in labor-force participation since 2007 . Economists are especially interested in the subset of non-participants who are considered `` marginally attached '' to the labor force . Those people are n't counted as unemployed , because they have n't looked for work in the past four weeks , but they have job-hunted sometime in the past year and say both that they want a job and are available to take one right away . Many labor economists believe marginally attached people are most likely to be drawn back into the labor force . But discouraged workers make up only about 35 % of all marginally attached workers , and account for just over half the increase in their ranks since the 2008 financial panic . The rest of the marginally attached cite a range of reasons for not having looked for work recently , including family responsibilities , being in school , ill health , and problems with child care or transportation .
The Japanese public is generally critical of the national government 's response to the March 11 earthquake and tsunami . A major exception is the country 's Self Defense Force ( SDF ) , which earns widespread praise for its response to the disasters . More than nine-in-ten ( 95 % ) say the SDF has done a good job responding to the crisis , including 62 % who say the force has done a very good job . A smaller majority ( 54 % ) give Japan 's news organizations , such as television , radio , newspapers and magazines , favorable marks for their handling of the disaster . However , only 10 % describe the media 's response as very good . The public gives Prime Minister Naoto Kan 's handling of the earthquake and tsunami nearly identical marks to those of the government : 18 % say he has done a good job responding to the disaster , compared with 79 % who rate his efforts as poor . Again , only a minority of DPJ backers ( 39 % ) favorably assess Kan 's performance . Among supporters of the LDP , as well as backers of other parties or no party , many fewer ( 12 % and 15 % , respectively ) say Kan has performed well .
About half of the public says they very closely followed news about the deadly shooting rampage shortly after midnight Friday morning in a movie theater in Colorado , making this one of the most closely followed stories so far in 2012 . Fully 48 % say they followed this news very closely , according to the latest survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted July 20 - 22 among 780 adults . Another 25 % say they followed news about the shootings – which left 12 dead and more than 50 injured – fairly closely . The number following this tragedy very closely is comparable to the 49 % that said they very closely followed news about the shootings in Tucson , Ariz. in January 2011 that left six dead and Rep. Gabrielle Giffords severely wounded . It also is similar to the 45 % that very closely followed news about the mass killings at Virginia Tech in April 2007 that left 33 dead . A number of other recent mass shootings – including one at an Ohio high school in late February that left three dead and another at Oakland , Ca. , college in early April that left seven dead – have attracted far less public attention . Still , interest in the Colorado shootings is well below the 68 % that said they very closely tracked news about the April 1999 shootings at Colorado 's Columbine High School , when two teenagers killed 13 people and themselves .
But with global public opinion decidedly anti-Iran , there is a steep hill to climb in Rouhani 's quest to improve Iran 's image and repair relations with the rest of the world . Overall , a median of 20 % across the 39 countries surveyed in a spring 2013 Pew Research Center poll had a positive view of the Islamic Republic .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds roughly eight-in-ten South Koreans ( 78 % ) have a favorable opinion of the U.S . While this figure is basically unchanged since Obama first took office in 2009 , it is a significant improvement from the early years of the George W. Bush era . In the months following the invasion of Iraq in 2003 , positive views towards America dropped to 46 % . However , before Bush left office in 2008 , they had climbed back to 70 % , and have remained high ever since .
Americans are not enthusiastic about the idea of creating a military Space Force . The U.S. Department of Defense has long had satellites orbiting Earth , and the notion of a larger American military presence in space has been around since the 1960s . While President Donald Trump has talked about creating a Space Force as an entirely new branch of the military , most members of the public are not on-board with this plan : A May 2019 Pew Research Center survey found 36 % of Americans approve of creating a military Space Force , while 60 % disapprove . U.S. military veterans are more evenly split on this idea , but still more disapprove ( 53 % ) than approve ( 45 % ) .
For the first time , a majority of the public ( 53 % ) says that the federal government threatens their personal rights and freedoms .
Most people around the globe say China plays a more important role in the world today than it did a decade ago – but most also say it 's better for the U.S. to lead the way . A median of 70 % across 25 countries say China is playing a more important role today compared with 10 years ago , while 31 % think the same about the U.S. At the same time , a median of 63 % believe it would be better to have the U.S. as the world 's leading power , but just 19 % say this about China . When it comes to which of the two nations is currently the world 's leading economic power , a median of 39 % point to the U.S. , while 34 % name China .
The fact that religion is generally less central to the lives of Israeli Muslims is also borne out by the relatively low rates of salat ( five daily prayers ) , alms-giving and fasting during Ramadan . Together , these practices represent three of the Five Pillars of Islam — rituals all Muslims are expected to observe . Roughly half ( 52 % ) of Israeli Muslims pray five times a day , compared with a median of 63 % among Muslims in other Middle Eastern and North African countries polled , including 83 % in Iraq . Jordan and Egypt are the only countries polled where the proportion of Muslims who pray all five times stands at roughly half – 54 % and 53 % respectively . Similarly , while a majority of Israeli Muslims give a portion of their accumulated wealth to charities or the needy ( a practice known as zakat ) , this is a significantly smaller proportion than is found among Muslims elsewhere in the Middle East and North Africa . A regional median of 79 % of Muslims practice zakat , with rates of observance as high as nine-in-ten in Morocco ( 92 % ) . In the case of fasting during Ramadan , Israel 's Muslims also tend to be less observant . While 83 % of Israeli Muslims do observe the ritual fast from dawn until dusk , this is a significantly smaller percentage than in Muslim-majority countries such as Morocco ( 98 % ) and Tunisia ( 96 % ) . A median of 94 % across the Middle East and North Africa say they fast during Ramadan .
Continued fighting in Ukraine between government forces and Russian-backed rebels has catalyzed fears in nearby countries that Russian President Vladimir Putin may soon try to further expand his reach . While the U.S. and European Union have voiced concerns about Russian interference in the Baltic states of Lithuania , Latvia and Estonia , paramilitary groups have begun forming throughout Poland to thwart what some Poles see as impending attacks . Within this atmosphere of anxiety , Poles view both Russia and its leader in an increasingly negative light compared with the years leading up to the Ukraine crisis . Polish animosity for Russia surged in Pew Research Center 's spring 2014 survey , with 81 % saying they had an unfavorable view of the Russian Federation , up 27 percentage points since 2013 . ( Nearly all interviews in Poland were conducted after Putin 's statement on March 18 , 2014 , regarding the Russian annexation of Crimea . ) These negative feelings permeate Polish society regardless of age , gender , education , employment status , urbanity or ideology .
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites . Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 61 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ) . People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party . Currently , 61 % of those who do not identify with any religion lean Democratic – a 22-year high . Back to top
About a quarter of U.S. adults ( 24 % ) say tax rates on corporations and large businesses should be lowered , while roughly twice as many ( 52 % ) say they should be raised . Another 21 % say corporate tax rates should be kept the same as they are now .
Most U.S. police officers see significant challenges on the job in the wake of high-profile incidents involving law enforcement and black citizens . Among those challenges is a widespread feeling among officers that police are mistreated by the media , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey conducted by the National Police Research Platform . About eight-in-ten officers ( 81 % ) who work in departments of 100 or more sworn officers say the media generally treat the police unfairly , according to the survey . Just 18 % of officers disagree . About four-in-ten officers ( 42 % ) strongly agree that the media are unfair to police .
As in the past , neither party has an edge on better managing the government ( 43 % say the Democratic Party , 40 % the Republican Party ) . More people continue to regard the Republican than the Democratic Party as `` more extreme in its positions '' ( 48 % Republican Party , 39 % Democratic Party ) .
About six-in-ten U.S. women today say `` feminist '' describes them very ( 19 % ) or somewhat ( 42 % ) well . But the degree to which women consider themselves feminist differs substantially by age , education and political party , according to the survey . Majorities of women across age groups say `` feminist '' describes them at least somewhat well , but those ages 50 to 64 are the least likely to say it describes them very well . Only 12 % in this age group say this , compared with 27 % of women ages 18 to 29 , 19 % of women ages 30 to 49 and 20 % of women 65 and older .
The problem of illegal drug use has receded somewhat from the national consciousness since the late 1980s and early 1990s , when there was massive media attention on the rise of crack cocaine and drug-related violence . Concern over drugs reached a peak in 1990 when 37 % of the public cited it as the top national problem .
Americans see Hispanics as the racial/ethnic group most often subjected to discrimination : A 2009 survey by the Pew Research Center found that nearly one-in-four ( 23 % ) Americans said Hispanics are discriminated against `` a lot '' in society today , a share higher than observed for any other group ( Pew Social and Demographic Trends , 2010 ) . This represents a change from 2001 , when blacks were seen as the racial/ethnic group discriminated against the most in society . Then , one-in-four ( 25 % ) Americans said blacks were discriminated against `` a lot , '' while 19 % said the same about Hispanics .
Ahead of a March 31 deadline for nuclear talks with Iran , more Americans approve ( 49 % ) than disapprove ( 40 % ) of the United States negotiating directly with Iran over its nuclear program . But the public remains skeptical of whether Iranian leaders are serious about addressing international concerns over their nuclear enrichment program . If a nuclear agreement is reached , most Americans ( 62 % ) want Congress to have final authority over the deal . Just 29 % say President Obama should have final authority over any nuclear agreement with Iran . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted March 25 - 29 among 1,500 adults , finds that just 27 % have heard a lot about the nuclear talks between the United States and Iran in Lausanne , Switzerland . Another 49 % have heard a little about the negotiations , while 24 % have heard nothing at all . Among those who have heard at least a little about the nuclear talks ( 76 % of the public ) , 63 % say Iranian leaders are not serious `` about addressing international concerns about their country 's nuclear enrichment program . '' Just 27 % say Iranian leaders are seriously addressing international concerns . These views are virtually unchanged since December 2013 , when 62 % of those aware of the negotiations said Iranian leaders were not serious in responding to concerns about the country 's nuclear program .
Following last year 's presidential election , some major U.S. newspapers reported a sharp jump in digital subscriptions , giving a boost to their overall circulation totals . The newspaper industry as a whole , however , faced ongoing challenges in 2016 , according to new Pew Research Center analysis . But these gains did not translate into circulation growth for the industry overall . A Pew Research Center analysis of data from AAM shows that total weekday circulation for U.S. daily newspapers – both print and digital – fell 8 % in 2016 , marking the 28th consecutive year of declines . ( Sunday circulation also fell 8 % . ) The overall decline includes a 10 % decrease in weekday print circulation ( 9 % for Sundays ) and a 1 % decline in weekday digital circulation ( 1 % rise for Sundays ) . Total weekday circulation for U.S. daily newspapers fell to 35 million , while total Sunday circulation declined to 38 million – the lowest levels since 1945 . ( For more information on how these totals were calculated , see our fact sheet . )
GOP voters see a divided party . In the view of most voters – including most Republicans – the GOP will face the election deeply divided . Fully 80 % of registered voters say the party is mostly divided in its views on issues and vision for the future , while just 17 % say it is mostly united . Seven-in-ten Republican and Republican-leaning voters say the GOP is mostly divided , as do 89 % of Democrats .
Despite the growth in cell-only households , the magnitude of possible non-coverage bias remains relatively small for the majority of measures tested . Of 72 questions examined , 43 of them show differences of 0 , 1 or 2 percentage points between the landline and dual frame weighted samples . Twenty-nine of the differences are 3 percentage points or more , all of which are statistically significant . Seventeen of the differences are 3 percentage points . Only one difference is as large as 7 points , while four others are 5 points and seven are 4 points . The coverage problem in landline surveys is mostly caused by the cell-only households . But as noted by Blumberg and Luke1 , people who have both a landline and cell phone , but are highly dependent on their cell phones for communication , may be underrepresented in surveys that include only the landline population and cell-only users . To disentangle these effects , we also computed estimates of the difference between landline samples and landline samples that include cell-only households ( as opposed to all adults reached by cell phone ) . For the most part , the patterns of difference are the same as those seen in the comparison of landline and full dual frame surveys . But they are slightly smaller in magnitude : only four differences are four points or larger ( compared with 12 for the landline vs. full dual frame comparison ) , and the average size of differences is 1.6 percentage points , vs. 2.1 percentage points for the full dual frame comparison .
Though most Americans focused on the oil spill last week , other stories also grabbed the public 's attention . More than four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say they followed reports about the condition of the economy very closely . This was the most closely followed story for 11 % . The media devoted 6 % of coverage to news about the economy , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they very closely followed President Obama 's announcement that he would send 1,200 National Guard troops to the Mexican border , a component in the long-running debate over immigration legislation ; 7 % say they followed this news more closely than any other major story . Reporting on this accounted for 5 % of the newshole examined by PEJ . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they very closely followed news about tensions between North Korea and South Korea ; 3 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the tensions made up 3 % of coverage .
Millennial adults — who are now ages 18 - 33 — remain more supportive of marijuana legalization than those in older generations : 63 % of Millennials say marijuana should be legal , while 35 % say it should be illegal . The views of Millennials are not significantly different than earlier this year . Baby Boomers ( 51 % legal , 46 % illegal ) and those in Generation X ( 54 % legal , 44 % illegal ) are about evenly divided over marijuana legalization , while the majority of those in the Silent Generation are opposed ( 66 % illegal , 27 % legal ) .
Just over half of all Hispanic adults in the U.S. worry that they , a family member or a close friend could be deported , a new nationwide survey of Latinos by the Pew Hispanic Center has found . Nearly two-thirds say the failure of Congress to enact an immigration reform bill has made life more difficult for all Latinos . Smaller numbers ( ranging from about one-in-eight to one-in-four ) say the heightened attention to immigration issues has had a specific negative effect on them personally . These effects include more difficulty finding work or housing ; less likelihood of using government services or traveling abroad ; and more likelihood of being asked to produce documents to prove their immigration status .
Among those who disapprove of Trump , 65 % of self-identified Democrats say they do n't think those with a different view of Trump share their other values and goals . Among those who disapprove of Trump and lean toward the Democratic Party ( but do n't identify with it ) , views are more mixed : 47 % think those with a different view of Trump probably share many of their other values and goals , while 52 % think they probably do not .
When it comes to legal immigration , a 39 % plurality supports keeping levels as they are currently . Of those who think levels of legal immigration into the U.S. should change , a somewhat greater share says legal immigration should be decreased ( 31 % ) than increased ( 24 % ) .
A 59 % majority says that everything possible should be done to make it easy for every citizen to vote , while 39 % say that citizens should have to prove they really want to vote by registering ahead of time . The national survey by Pew Research Center finds partisans are sharply divided over the question of how easy it should be for citizens to vote . A large majority of Democrats ( 84 % ) say that voting should be made as easy as possible for citizens . By contrast , just 35 % of Republicans favor making voting as easy as possible , while 63 % say citizens should have to prove they really want to vote by registering ahead of time . Among independents , more say it should be easy for citizens to vote ( 57 % ) than say they should have to prove they really want to vote ( 41 % ) .
Near the end of the Great Recession , about one-in-five Hispanics ages 18 and 19 were `` disconnected youth '' – neither working nor going to school . But , helped by the economic recovery , the share of these young Hispanic adults not working or enrolled in school dropped from 21 % in 2009 to a historic low of 16 % by 2014 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of federal government data . Only among Hispanics has the share of detached youth dropped below recession-era levels . By comparison , 19 % of blacks of the same age were neither working nor in school in 2014 , a level that has not changed much over the past decade , even during the recession . Among whites of this age , the share of detached young adults ( 12 % ) remained above pre-recession levels . Overall , 14 % of adults in the U.S. ages 18 and 19 are neither working nor in school , according to data from the Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics . This share has held steady over the past decade . ( Some young people are not included in this analysis : those in the military and prison . The data source , the Current Population Survey , excludes people in institutions like those . )
Russians and Ukrainians disagree on what to do about the regions in eastern Ukraine , where the separatist movement has been the strongest . Ukrainians would like the Luhans'k and Donets'k regions to remain part of Ukraine , either with the same terms as before the conflict ( 51 % ) or with more autonomy from Kyiv ( 33 % ) . But Russians prefer that the region either become independent states ( 35 % ) or part of Russia ( 24 % ) , rather than stay with Ukraine ( 32 % ) .
Meanwhile , the millions of Millennials who have entered into parenthood are notably confident in their parenting abilities . In the 2015 survey , half of Millennial parents ( 52 % ) said they were doing a very good job as a parent , compared with 43 % of Gen X parents and 41 % of Boomer parents . Millennial moms , in particular , were more likely than other moms ( or dads ) to say they were doing a very good job : 57 % said this , compared with 48 % of Gen X moms and 41 % of Boomer moms . Millennial dads , like other fathers , did n't rate themselves as highly as moms on this measure – 43 % said they were doing a very good job . By comparison , 37 % of Gen X dads said the same , as did 39 % of all dads . ( The differences among dads are not statistically significant . )
Hindus are among the least educated of the world 's major religious groups when looked at globally , but this is not true of Hindus everywhere , especially those who are living in economically advanced nations , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of religion and education . Nearly all ( 98 % ) of the world 's Hindu adults live in these three countries , which explains why patterns among Hindus in South Asia align very closely with patterns among Hindus overall . Worldwide , Hindu adults average 5.6 years of education , compared to a global average of 7.7 years for all adults . Hindus rank significantly behind Jews , Christians , religiously unaffiliated people and Buddhists .
People in Latin America also strongly support the U.S. ending its trade embargo against Cuba , which U.S. President Barack Obama has pledged to do , but would need congressional approval to move forward . Overall , a median of 76 % across five Latin American countries support the lifting of the embargo , while only 13 % oppose such an action . Support for the U.S. removing the embargo , as with re-establishing diplomatic ties , is strongest in Argentina ( 79 % ) , Chile ( 77 % ) and Venezuela ( 76 % ) . Majorities of Brazilians ( 71 % ) and Mexicans ( 55 % ) also endorse the ending of the embargo , which would allow U.S. companies to do business in Cuba and Cuban companies to seek profit in the U.S .
Americans think the public 's trust has been declining in both the federal government and in their fellow citizens . Three-quarters of Americans say that their fellow citizens ' trust in the federal government has been shrinking , and 64 % believe that about peoples ' trust in each other .
Restrictions on religion increased around the world in 2016 , according to Pew Research Center 's ninth annual study on global restrictions on religion . This is the second year in a row that overall restrictions on religion – whether the result of government actions or by individuals or societal groups – increased in the 198 countries included in the study . More than a quarter ( 28 % ) of countries had `` high '' or `` very high '' levels of government restrictions on religion in 2016 , an increase from 25 % the year before . This is the largest share of countries in these categories since 2013 . Countries in the `` high '' or `` very high '' categories scored at least a 4.5 on the Government Restrictions Index . The index is a 10-point scale based on 20 indicators of government restrictions on religion , including limits on proselytizing and public preaching , or detentions and assaults of religious group members . Laos , for example , joined the `` very high '' restrictions category in 2016 , due in part to a new government decree that allows the Ministry of Home Affairs to stop any religious activity that it sees as counter to policies , traditional customs or laws within its jurisdiction .
As President Obama and his staff weigh their difficult choices in the Afghanistan theater , the public also appears to be finding it difficult to judge the merits of different options for expanding , maintaining or contracting the U.S. effort on that front . A Pew Research Center survey taken in mid-September found a significant drop in the proportion of the public in favor of keeping U.S. troops in Afghanistan until the situation there is stable . Only half ( 50 % ) now choose that option , while 43 % favor removing troops as soon as possible . As recently as June , 57 % favored troop retention .
Another troubling aspect of the market downturn identified in the survey was its disproportionate impact on ethnic and racial minorities . When the survey excluded those students who opted to return to school rather than enter the job market , fewer than half of the 2009 minority graduates with undergrad degrees ( 48.6 % ) found full-time jobs compared with 63.9 % of non-minority graduates . That gap of 15.3 % almost tripled from the previous year , when it stood at 5.9 % and represents the biggest such difference in the more than two decades that the University of Georgia has been monitoring this .
On a separate question , more than six-in-ten in India ( 63 % ) agreed that a university education is more important for a boy than for a girl , the highest number to say this in the survey . About half in Pakistan ( 51 % ) , Egypt ( 50 % ) and China ( 48 % ) also expressed this view . In the U.S. , 83 % disagreed . Similarly , more than eight-in-ten disagreed in Britain ( 87 % ) , Brazil ( 87 % ) , France ( 87 % ) , Mexico ( 84 % ) and Germany ( 83 % ) . Virtually all of those surveyed in Lebanon ( 97 % ) disagreed .
A record number of Americans live in multigenerational households , part of a broader trend toward more shared living . In 2016 , a record 64 million people , or 20 % of the U.S. population , lived with multiple generations under one roof , even with improvements in the U.S. economy since the Great Recession . Multigenerational family living is growing among nearly all U.S. racial groups , Hispanics , most age groups and both men and women . In recent years , young adults have edged out older Americans as the most likely age group to live in a multigenerational household , which we define as a household with two or more adult generations , or including grandparents and grandchildren younger than 25 .
About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) Americans say the U.S. should help other countries deal with their problems , while a narrow majority ( 52 % ) says the U.S. should deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their problems as best they can . In this regard , Americans are not drastically different from respondents in France , where 43 % believe their country should help other countries and 57 % say it should focus on its own problems .
According to the Pew Hispanic survey , nearly half ( 48 % ) of all Latinos say they have seen or heard something recently from an organization encouraging them to fill out their census form . But here again , there is a significant difference between the foreign born and the native born in the share who report having seen or heard such messages—56 % versus 38 % .
In the 2016 election , a wide gap in presidential preferences emerged between those with and without a college degree , our post-election analysis of national exit poll data found . College graduates backed Clinton by a 9-point margin ( 52 % -43 % ) , while those without a college degree backed Trump 52 % -44 % . This was by far the widest gap in support among college graduates and non-college graduates in exit polls dating back to 1980 .
Many see daylight between Trump 's positions and those of average Republicans . About half of all voters ( 51 % ) say average Republicans generally disagree with Trump on most issues , while fewer ( 42 % ) say they generally agree with Trump 's positions . By contrast , 72 % of voters say average Democrats agree with Clinton on most issues . Republicans remain skeptical that their party will unite behind their presumptive nominee . Just 38 % of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters say the party will `` solidly unite '' behind Trump ; 54 % say disagreements in the party will keep many Republicans from supporting him . These views are virtually unchanged since March , amid the GOP primary contest . By contrast , 72 % of Democratic voters say their party will solid unite behind Clinton ; in March , 64 % expected their party to unite behind Clinton if she became the nominee .
As the European Union considers further sanctions on Russia for its role in the standoff in Ukraine , Russia is broadly unpopular in many countries around the globe and increasingly disliked in Europe and the United States . President Vladimir Putin 's leadership also continues to inspire little confidence worldwide , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The former Cold War power 's negative global image contradicts Russians ' expectations that Putin 's actions in Ukraine would improve their country 's international reputation .
Early signs are that 2017 could see an increase in the rate of naturalization of lawful permanent residents . According to the latest figures released by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security 's Citizenship and Immigration Services , there were 525,000 naturalization applications submitted during the first half of fiscal year 2017 , which started Oct. 1.3 That number is up 21 % from the 435,000 applications submitted in the same period of 2016 , which already had seen a spike on naturalization applications compared with previous years . The total applications for fiscal 2016 were up by 24 % compared with 2015 , and represented the highest number of applications for naturalization since 2008 . Meanwhile , the number of lawful permanent residents admitted since 2010 , many of whom would have recently become eligible to apply for citizenship , has stabilized at around 1 million per year since 2010 . Even so , the volume of citizenship applications in 2017 and 2016 still pales in comparison to the record levels seen in 1997 ( 1.41 million applications ) and 2007 ( 1.38 million ) .These spikes were triggered in large part by congressional legislation passed a decade earlier that provided a path to lawful permanent residence and eventual citizenship for many unauthorized immigrants .4 The spike in 2007 occurred ahead of an increase in the citizenship application fee for adults , which rose from $ 330 to $ 595 on July 30 , 2007 .
About half ( 48 % ) of Hispanics overall said they had serious concerns about their place in the country , according to a Pew Research Center survey of Latino adults fielded in December 2019 . This was particularly true of Hispanic U.S. adults who identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party , 60 % of whom held this view compared with 26 % of Hispanics who identify as or lean Republican . Conversely , 72 % of Republican Hispanics said they were confident about their place in America , compared with 36 % of Democratic Hispanics .
Despite the negative economic mood in Russia , President Putin still receives overwhelming support from the public . On foreign relations , eight-in-ten or more approve of his dealings with China , the U.S. , Ukraine and the European Union . In the domestic realm , overwhelming majorities support his energy policy ( 73 % ) and his handling of the economy ( 70 % ) . His lowest rating is for his handling of corruption , but even here , 62 % of the Russian public supports him .
Just 21 % of Americans say relations between Republicans and Democrats will get better in the coming year . Far more ( 37 % ) expect relations to worsen , while 41 % say they will stay about the same . To be sure , more Democrats say partisan relations will stay the same ( 44 % ) or get worse ( 20 % ) than predict they will improve . But Democrats are far more optimistic than Republicans , a majority of whom ( 54 % ) say relations will get worse in the coming year , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Nov. 12 to 17 .
As of May 2013 , 70 % of American adults ages 18 and older have a high-speed broadband connection at home , according to a nationally representative survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project . This is a small but statistically significant rise from the 66 % of adults who said they had home broadband in April 2012 .
An analysis of opinions on Bush 's job performance shows that views of his handling of the economy are now the biggest factor influencing his overall rating , with Iraq nearly as important . Terrorism is less of a factor than either of these issues , although it may be preventing Bush 's overall rating from slipping further .
There are a few other possible explanations for the apparent paradox of the growing number of Catholics and the now shrinking number of parishes . For one , the number of priests ( as well as nuns ) has declined steadily over the past 50 years , potentially leading to staff shortages at parishes . In fact , according to CARA , there are now 3,496 parishes without a resident priest , more than six times as many as there were 50 years ago . Also , the financial ramifications of the clergy sex abuse scandal – including legal costs , settlements and declining donations – have caused economic problems for some dioceses .
Among religiously affiliated Southern teens , roughly four-in-ten say they regularly pray before eating lunch at their public school ( 38 % ) , compared with smaller shares in the Midwest ( 23 % ) , West ( 20 % ) and Northeast ( 13 % ) who say this . Teens in the South ( 31 % ) also are more likely than teens in the West ( 21 % ) and Northeast ( 14 % ) to invite other students to religious youth groups or worship services . There are fewer regional differences among religiously affiliated teens in public schools when it comes to personally wearing religious clothing or jewelry in school . About a third of teens in the South ( 36 % ) and Midwest ( 35 % ) say they often or sometimes wear clothing or jewelry with religious symbols , as do 26 % of teens in the Northeast and 25 % of teens in the West .
Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of parents of three or more children say the teaching of religious faith is important ( and 40 % rate it among the most important qualities to teach children ) . Smaller shares of parents with two children ( 55 % ) and one child ( 52 % ) view instilling faith as important ; about a third of those with two children ( 34 % ) and just 22 % of those with one child view it among the most important qualities to teach children .
For example , while clear majorities of whites agree that government should do more to help the needy ( 55 % in the 2005 Typology ) and guarantee food and shelter ( 62 % in the 2003 Values survey ) , the numbers of blacks expressing those views are much larger ( 72 % and 80 % ) —a differential that has remained essentially constant over time .
More broadly , a majority of Americans ( 58 % ) say there should be limits on the number of jobs that businesses can replace with machines , even if those machines are better and cheaper . Fewer respondents ( 41 % ) took the opposite view that businesses are justified in replacing human workers , even if machines can do the work better and at a lower cost . The public is more divided on the question of who bears responsibility for taking care of displaced workers in the event of widespread automation . Half say it is the government 's obligation , even if it means raising taxes substantially . Nearly the same share ( 49 % ) says it 's the obligation of individuals , even if machines have already taken many human jobs .
The rising price of gasoline replaced the Iraq war last week as the public 's most closely followed news story . More than half of the public ( 52 % ) paid very close attention to news about gas prices , and 27 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . By comparison , 33 % followed the situation in Iraq very closely , and 23 % listed Iraq as their top news story of the week . Historically , rising gas prices have attracted broad public interest . A year ago , even more Americans ( 69 % ) followed news about gas prices very closely . This past week , interest in gas prices outstripped media coverage of the issue by a wide margin . The national news media devoted 4 % of its coverage to gasoline prices , making it the sixth most heavily covered news story of the week .
One reason mothers are more likely than fathers to say it 's harder to get ahead in the workplace may be that women are much more likely than men to experience a variety of family-related career interruptions . About four-in-ten working mothers ( 42 % ) say that at some point in their working life , they had reduced their hours in order to care for a child or other family member , while just 28 % of working fathers say they had done the same ; almost as many working mothers ( 39 % ) say they had taken a significant amount of time off from work for one of these reasons , compared with about a quarter ( 24 % ) of working fathers . And mothers are more likely than fathers to say they quit their job at some point for family reasons , by 27 % to 10 % .
More than eight-in-ten Americans rate press coverage of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan as excellent ( 43 % ) or good ( 42 % ) . Almost as many say the same about coverage of the shooting of Gabrielle Giffords in early January ( 34 % excellent , 40 % good ) . But when it comes to domestic stories focused on economics and politics , the press gets much lower marks . Just 4 % say the news media has done an excellent job covering discussions about how to address the federal budget deficit , 27 % say coverage has been good . Nearly two-thirds rate the job the press has done as only fair ( 40 % ) or poor ( 24 % ) .
Few Americans , however , said that they had a lot of control over the information that is collected about them in daily life . Just 9 % of Americans said they had a lot of control over the information that is collected about them . In an earlier survey , 91 % agreed with the statement that consumers have lost control of how personal information is collected and used by companies .
The United Kingdom is the only European country included in this survey that is not a member of the European Union , having left the EU on Jan. 31 , 2020 , three and a half years after the June 2016 Brexit referendum . But , in this first Pew Research Center survey since the country formally left the bloc , views of the European Union climbed to a new historic high , with 60 % saying they had a favorable view of the Brussels-based organization . Britons were also very divided in their assessments of the EU . For example , 71 % of Britons ages 18 to 29 expressed a favorable view of the EU , while only 49 % of those 50 and older said the same . This 22 percentage point gap is the largest among the nine European countries surveyed . Similarly , Britons with a postsecondary education or more tended to have more favorable views of the EU than those with less education – and , once again , the 21-point educational gap is the largest across the European countries . Britons who placed themselves on the left of the ideological spectrum were also more likely to have a favorable opinion of the EU than those who were on the ideological right , and the 29-point gap between those on the left and those on the right was the largest in Europe . Partisan preferences also shaped EU assessments . Britons with favorable views of the governing Conservative Party were less likely than those with unfavorable views of the party to express a positive opinion of the EU . The same was true of Britons who had a favorable view of the Brexit Party , which campaigned on the UK leaving the EU in a `` clean break . '' However , among supporters of the Labour and Liberal Democrat parties , the pattern was reversed : Those who had favorable opinions of each party were more likely to have a positive view of the EU than those with unfavorable opinions of the parties .
The Optimists Club : The countries with the rosiest views of the next year are those with emerging or developing economies . Eight-in-ten Chinese ( 80 % ) expect their economy to get better over the next 12 months , as do roughly three-quarters of Peruvians ( 77 % ) and Vietnamese ( 74 % ) . Seven-in-ten or more Senegalese ( 73 % ) , Nigerians ( 72 % ) , Indians ( 71 % ) and Colombians ( 70 % ) are similarly upbeat . Notably , economic forecasters at the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) expect little improvement in most of these economies over the next year . The striking exceptions are India , where the IMF foresees the economy accelerating from 5.4 % in 2014 to 6.4 % in 2015 , confirming public expectations , and China , where public optimism is at odds with an IMF prediction that the economy will actually slow slightly , from 7.4 % in 2014 to 7.1 % in 2015 . The Pessimists Club : More than half of Greeks ( 53 % ) anticipate economic conditions worsening over the next 12 months , ( another 26 % expect the Greek economy to remain the same , which , in a nation where the economy shrank by -3.9 % in 2013 is hardly a vote of confidence ) . In addition , 48 % of the French expect their economy to deteriorate , as do 46 % of Lebanese and 44 % of Palestinians . Greek pessimists , however , may be pleasantly surprised : the IMF foresees the Greek economy improving from 0.6 % growth in 2014 to 2.9 % in 2015 . Similarly , while less than half the Lebanese expect more hard times , the IMF forecasts Lebanon 's economy to accelerate from 1 % growth in 2014 to 2.5 % in 2015 .
Job concerns are closely related to a person 's income and education levels . Nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) Americans with household incomes under $ 30,000 annually say that jobs are difficult to find in their area , up 17 percentage points from the 61 % recorded last November . By comparison , among Americans with incomes of $ 75,000 or more fewer than half ( 46 % ) say jobs are difficult to find , up only seven points since last November . Similarly , roughly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Americans with a high school degree or less see limited job opportunities in their area , compared with 51 % of those with a college degree .
Concern about air pollution has grown sharply in recent years , according to a Pew Research Center survey from this past spring . In that survey , 47 % of Chinese said air pollution was a `` very big '' problem facing the country , up from 31 % in 2008 and 36 % last year . Air pollution ranked fourth out of 15 issues in terms of public concern , behind rising prices ( which 59 % of people cited as a very big problem ) , corrupt officials ( 53 % ) and the gap between rich and poor ( 52 % ) .
A growing share of Americans are paying close attention to news about the election , but many are also concerned about the media reporting inaccurate or incomplete information . And that includes information reported by their own most-used news sources , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Two-thirds of U.S. adults say they 've seen the news sources they turn to most often present factual information that favors one side of an issue in coverage of the 2020 election , according to the survey , conducted Oct. 6 to 12 among 10,059 Americans – including 8,972 registered voters – as part of the Center 's American News Pathways project . More than half ( 56 % ) say their news sources have published breaking information before it was fully verified , and 37 % say their sources have reported made-up news that is intended to mislead .
People 's views about their own country 's potential use of torture are strongly correlated with their views about the U.S. government 's post-9/11 interrogation practices . Countries with larger percentages of people who say their own governments would be justified in torturing terrorist suspects also tend to have larger percentages of people saying the use of torture by the U.S. government was justified after the 9/11 attacks .
People in the two countries have different views about what the levels of national defense spending should be in Europe . A plurality of Americans ( 45 % ) say European allies should increase their defense spending , while 32 % of Germans say the same about their own defense budget . In contrast , roughly half of Germans ( 51 % ) say Germany should maintain its current military budget , and 13 % want to spend less on their nation 's defense .
For the first time this fall , news about swine flu and the vaccine ranked atop the public 's news agenda . About a third ( 32 % ) followed news about the swine flu more closely than any other story . More than four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say they paid very close attention to the story , matching a high reached in early May 2009 . For the week , interest was strong despite modest media coverage ; swine flu filled 5 % of the newshole and trailed coverage of other leading stories , including the economy , Afghanistan , and the debate over health care reform . Second to the news about swine flu , the health care reform debate was the top story for 27 % of the public ; 40 % followed news about the debate very closely . Coverage accounted for 10 % of the national newshole . Reports about the condition of the U.S. economy was the top story for 15 % of the public , while 44 % say they followed economic news very closely . News about the economy made up 10 % of the newshole . Another 6 % of coverage was devoted to issues surrounding executive pay and attempts to regulate it . Almost one third of Americans ( 32 % ) say they followed this story very closely ; it was the top story for 4 % . News about the U.S. military effort in Afghanistan was the most closely followed story of the week for 9 % of the public . Close to a third ( 32 % ) say they followed Afghanistan news very closely – one of the few times this year that very close interest has topped 30 % . The media devoted 13 % of coverage to Afghanistan , according to PEJ .
When playing games with others online , many teen gamers ( especially boys ) connect with their fellow players via voice connections in order to engage in collaboration , conversation and trash-talking . Among boys who play games with others online , fully 71 % use voice connections to engage with other players ( this compares with just 28 % of girls who play in networked environments ) . All this playing , hanging out and talking while playing games leads many teens to feel closer to friends . Social media helps teens feel more connected to their friends ' feelings and daily lives , and also offers teens a place to receive support from others during challenging times .
A majority of U.S. adults ( 58 % ) say the Constitution should be amended so the presidential candidate who receives the most votes nationwide wins , while 40 % prefer to keep the current system in which the candidate who receives the most Electoral College votes wins the election . Support for amending the Constitution has increased slightly since the period immediately following the 2016 election . In a November 2016 CNN/ORC survey , roughly half of adults ( 51 % ) favored amending the Constitution to eliminate the Electoral College . And in a March 2018 Pew Research Center survey , 55 % favored taking this step . The current level of support for eliminating the Electoral College is nearly the same as in 2011 , when 62 % favored amending the Constitution . However , partisans ' attitudes on this question have grown further apart since the 2016 election , with Republicans becoming more supportive of the current system .
Following the shootings at Fort Hood , the debate over health care reform was the public 's second biggest story of the week with a quarter saying they followed health care news more closely than any other story . About a third ( 35 % ) paid very close attention to news about health care reform . According to PEJ , the media devoted 8 % of national coverage to health care news .
A majority of those who say they did not vote ( 61 % ) also say they wish they had voted in the midterms ; 38 % say they do not wish they had voted .
Fully 59 % of Democratic voters say there is a good chance they would vote for Clinton , while an additional 28 % say there is some chance ( just 10 % say there is no chance ) . Though Joe Biden is similarly well-known , just 22 % say there is a good chance they would vote for him , while 47 % say there is some chance of this ( 23 % say there is no chance ) .
Other recent news events have attracted far more public attention , from the ongoing investigation into the Boston Marathon bombings ( which 63 % said they had followed very closely ) to the gun-control debate in Congress ( 39 % ) and the explosion of a Texas fertilizer plant ( 27 % ) . Read more
About one-in-five white evangelical Protestants ( 22 % ) and unaffiliated ( 21 % ) say parents should be able to decide not to have their children vaccinated , a slightly higher share than for other religious groups . One-in-ten white mainline Protestants ( 10 % ) and nearly the same share of Catholics ( 11 % ) , for instance , say parents should be able to decide not to have their children vaccinated for measles , mumps and rubella .
More than 29 million Latinos are eligible to vote nationwide in 2018 , making up 12.8 % of all eligible voters – both new highs , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . The pool of eligible Hispanic voters has steadily grown in recent years . Between 2014 and 2018 , an additional 4 million Hispanics became eligible voters ( U.S. citizens ages 18 and older ) . Much of this growth has been driven by young U.S.-born Hispanics coming of age . Since 2014 , around 3 million have turned 18 . Other sources of growth include Hispanic immigrant naturalizations – among Mexicans alone , 423,000 became U.S. citizens from 2014 to 2017 – as well as residents of Puerto Rico moving to one of the 50 states and the District of Columbia , especially Florida .
When it comes to the content of congressional Facebook posts , those that were more confrontational were more likely to inspire `` angry '' reactions . Confrontational posts are defined as those that expressed opposition toward a number of politicians and political groups , including Trump , Barack Obama , Hillary Clinton , Democrats and Republicans . Overall , 69,318 posts – 15 % of all posts created between Feb. 24 , 2016 , and Dec. 31 , 2017 – expressed opposition . Among posts that expressed this kind of confrontational rhetoric , 13 % of the reactions to the average post received `` angry '' feedback . By comparison , just 3 % of reactions for posts that did not express political opposition were angry . However , when it comes to the `` love '' reaction , there was no meaningful difference in the rates at which the congressional Facebook audience responded to confrontational posts ( about 4 % both for posts expressing opposition and for those not expressing opposition ) .
Perceptions of the tone of economic news had been improving steadily since they tumbled last summer amid concerns the economy could be slipping back into recession . In August , 67 % said the news about the economy was mostly bad , more than double the figure saying that today .
The federal Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported that the 10 largest occupations ( as of May 2013 ) , accounting for more than a fifth of all U.S. wage and salary jobs , are predominantly low-paid ones — cashiers , sales clerks , fast-food workers and the like . That 's broadly been the pattern in U.S. employment for many years . But overall employment has become more concentrated in those largest occupational categories over the past decade or so , and well-paying jobs account for a smaller share of them .
In 2016 , European Union countries , Norway and Switzerland received more than 1.2 million asylum applications , only about 92,000 fewer than the record 1.3 million applications received in 2015 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of recently released data from Eurostat , Europe 's statistical agency . At the same time , however , the number of monthly asylum applications in Europe decreased considerably at the end of 2016 , dropping from 100,000 or more applications per month for most of 2016 to about 80,000 in October , 72,000 in November and 61,000 in December . The monthly number of asylum applications at the end of 2016 was similar to that of the beginning part of 2015 , before the refugee surge . In all , Europe received some 2.5 million first-time asylum applications in 2015 and 2016 . The European country with the most applications in the past two years has been Germany , which received nearly half ( 45 % ) of these applications , followed by Hungary ( 8 % ) , Italy ( 8 % ) and Sweden ( 7 % ) . Both Italy and Greece continue to receive new arrivals on their shores , but Italy received more than Greece in 2016 .
NRA members are also significantly more likely than other gun owners to say they have a gun that is loaded and easily accessible to them at all times ( 53 % vs. 34 % ) . And , among handgun owners , NRA members are twice as likely to say they carry a gun with them outside of their home all or most of the time ( 44 % vs. 22 % ) . They are also more likely to say they have taken a gun safety course at some point – 84 % of NRA members have done this , compared with 67 % of gun owners who do n't belong to the NRA .
Three-quarters of U.S. adults say technology companies have a responsibility to prevent the misuse of their platforms to influence the 2020 presidential election , but only around a quarter say they are very or somewhat confident in these firms to do so , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted July 27-Aug. 2 . The survey comes as Facebook and other major tech companies make efforts to limit political misinformation ahead of the November election . Since 2018 , majorities of Americans have said that tech companies like Facebook , Twitter and Google have a responsibility to prevent misuse of their platforms to influence elections . However , the share of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents who say tech companies have this responsibility has declined since January , from 75 % to 64 % . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , an overwhelming majority continues to say tech companies are responsible for preventing misuse of their platforms ( 85 % today , up from 81 % in January ) .
More than four-in-ten ( 44 % ) paid very close attention to reports about the condition of the U.S. economy last week , while 19 % named it their top story . While about as many paid very close attention to the economy as health care reform , far fewer named the economy as their most closely followed story ( 19 % economy , 42 % health care ) .
Forty percent of people who worked at local television stations in 2012 were women , but less than 20 % of the general managers were , according to a newsroom survey conducted by the Radio Television and Digital News Association , in conjunction with Hofstra University . Still , this represents a rise –up from 15.8 % in 2011 . In 2004 , women filled just 12.1 % of television management positions .
President Peña Nieto 's popularity has declined over the past year . Just 44 % express a favorable opinion of him , down 7 percentage points since 2014 and down 12 points from a spring 2012 poll conducted just months before he was elected president .
Despite the substantial portion of Tunisians that believe they are worse off since the Jasmine Revolution , opinions of Tunisian institutions are relatively mixed . Fully 95 % give the military positive ratings . The police also receive high ratings , with 82 % support in 2014 , up from 71 % last year . Six-in-ten or more also believe financial institutions ( 62 % ) , the media ( 62 % ) and corporations ( 60 % ) have a good influence on the way things are going in Tunisia . Roughly half ( 52 % ) of Tunisians give the national government high marks , while just 41 % rate the government negatively . Prime Minister Jomaa , the leader of the current caretaker government , receives some of the highest support . Roughly three-quarters of Tunisians ( 77 % ) believe he has a good influence on the country . Just 15 % give Jomaa negative ratings . People have more mixed reviews of trade unions ( 45 % good ) and the court system ( 44 % ) , on par with 2013 . Attitudes toward civil servants are also split with 49 % seeing them as good . Three-in-ten or fewer say that President Marzouki ( 30 % ) and the Constituent Assembly ( 28 % ) have a good influence on the country . While public opinion of the Assembly , which approved Tunisia 's new constitution earlier this year , has improved over the last year , it has not returned to the higher ratings it enjoyed just after its creation when 45 % of Tunisians gave it high marks in 2012 .
The gender gap is just one of several gaps in earnings that characterize the American workforce . A separate Center analysis from 2016 , for example , found that white men had higher median hourly earnings ( $ 21 ) than every other racial or ethnic and gender subgroup except one : Asian men , whose median hourly earnings were $ 24 .
Item : Isolationism – American willingness to involve the country in world affairs rose in the wake of the 9/11 attacks . In December 2002 , just 30 % of the public expressed the view that the United States should `` mind its own business internationally . '' Since then , isolationist sentiment has risen substantially reaching levels last seen during the mid-1970s , following the Vietnam War , and in the mid-1990s after the Cold War ended . In a November 2005 Pew/Council on Foreign Relations survey , about 42 % of the U.S. public ascribed to the `` mind its own business '' view – a percentage that remained unchanged a year later in Pew 's December 2006 poll .
At the U.S.-Mexico border , there have been more apprehensions of non-Mexicans than Mexicans every year since fiscal 2016 . Non-Mexicans accounted for 62 % of apprehensions at the southwest border in fiscal 2018 , marking the third consecutive year in which they outnumbered Mexicans . In fiscal 2018 , which ended Sept. 30 , the Border Patrol made 152,257 apprehensions of Mexicans . This is a sharp drop from a recent peak of 1.6 million apprehensions in fiscal 2000 , when Mexicans accounted for 98 % of apprehensions . The decline in apprehensions reflects a decrease in the number of unauthorized Mexican immigrants coming to the U.S .
While partisans are about equally likely to say they followed news about the Secret Service investigation very closely , Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say they followed the GSA story very closely ( 23 % vs. 15 % ) . About two-in-ten independents ( 18 % ) say this as well .
Just 39 % of Canadians express a favorable opinion of the U.S. in 2018 , the lowest percentage since Pew Research Center began polling in Canada in 2002 . Only 25 % have confidence in Trump , although he gets more positive ratings among those who feel closest to the Conservative Party ( 44 % ) than among those who identify with the New Democratic Party ( 17 % ) or the ruling Liberal Party ( 10 % ) . Fully 82 % say the U.S. ignores Canada 's interests when making foreign policy .
The public offers a mixed reaction to a proposal to change Medicare into a program that would give future participants a credit toward purchasing private health insurance coverage : 41 % oppose such a change , 36 % favor it , and nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) have no opinion either way . Despite this even division of opinion overall , there is broad , and strong , opposition to the proposal among older Americans , and those who are paying a lot of attention to the issue .
One frequently cited example of the U.S. turning around its image in a difficult environment is Indonesia , where U.S. humanitarian assistance following the horrific December 2004 tsunami helped improve America 's image in the world 's largest Muslim country . Prior to the tsunami , favorable attitudes toward the U.S. had plummeted in reaction to the Iraq war , however after the tragedy and the influx of American aid favorable views of the U.S. more than doubled , jumping from 15 % to 38 % . Recently , we have seen a similar , although more limited , pattern in Pakistan where American aid following the October 2005 earthquake helped drive favorable opinions of the U.S. up slightly , from 23 % in 2005 to 27 % in 2006 .
While a majority of Americans have watched at least one of the debates for the 2016 presidential election , there are striking differences between parties when it comes to which side 's debates people are watching . Democratic debate watchers have in large numbers tuned in to the opposing party 's debates , something far less common among Republicans , according to new data from Pew Research Center . Overall , Republicans are watching presidential debates at higher rates than both Democrats and independents ( 64 % , compared with 53 % of Democrats and 56 % of independents ) . But among those who do watch debates , seven-in-ten Democrats who have seen at least one watched a Republican debate , compared with about half ( 49 % ) of Republicans who watched a Democratic debate .
And while it 's no surprise that more conflict-averse people are less likely to be willing to share their political views in social settings with people who hold different views , the magnitude of some of these gaps was striking . For example , 76 % of those with a high level of comfort with conflict said they would share their feelings about Trump in a social situation with people who held opposing views ; only 26 % of those with a low level of comfort with conflict said the same .
U.S. political leaders have a sizable following among Americans who are on the platform . Among U.S adults with public Twitter accounts , 19 % follow President Donald Trump , while 26 % follow former President Barack Obama . Overall , 21 % follow at least one member of Congress , with 17 % following a Democratic legislator and 8 % following a Republican member .
Yet the good feelings among blacks after Barack Obama 's election co-exist with a persistent belief that discrimination and unfairness remain a part of life for African Americans in this country . To take a recent example , in May fully 88 % said there was a lot or some discrimination against blacks , with 46 % seeing a lot of discrimination . A majority of whites ( 57 % ) also saw at least some discrimination against blacks , but just 16 % said there was a lot of discrimination .
Unlike some other groups of Christians in the U.S. , evangelical Protestants have not declined much as a share of the U.S. population in recent years , according to a major new Pew Research Center study . Looking at the raw numbers , the evangelical population actually appears to have grown slightly over the last seven years , rising from roughly 60 million to about 62 million . Again , this contrasts with mainline Protestants and Catholics , who together have lost several million adherents during the same time period .
But despite QAnon 's spread , about three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 76 % ) say they have heard or read nothing at all about it , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in February and March . Around a quarter ( 23 % ) say they have heard or read a lot or a little , with 3 % saying they 've heard or read a lot . The data was gathered as part of the Center 's Election News Pathways project .
Today , 64 % say they have a favorable view of Obama , including 34 % who say they have a very favorable view . In October last year , only about half ( 49 % ) had a favorable view of Obama , including only about two-in-ten ( 22 % ) who viewed him very favorably . Though the president 's favorability ratings have improved over the last year , Michelle Obama remains more popular than her husband : Nearly three-quarters of the public ( 72 % ) also have a very ( 46 % ) or mostly ( 25 % ) favorable opinion of the first lady , compared with 22 % who view her unfavorably . Views of Michelle Obama have changed only modestly over the course of eight years , though the share who see her favorably is up 11 points from last year .
Concerns about terrorism are pervasive in Europe , and many see a link between the refugee issue and terrorism . When asked about a variety of international threats , publics in nine of 10 European countries surveyed named ISIS as their top concern , illustrating the strong worries Europeans have about terrorism in the wake of attacks in Paris , Brussels and elsewhere . ( The exception was Greece , where respondents cited global economic instability and global climate change ahead of ISIS . ) And importantly , many see a connection between terrorism and the wave of refugees into Europe from the Middle East and other regions over the past two years . Across 10 European nations , a median of 59 % said the influx of refugees would increase the likelihood of terrorism in their country .
Black and Hispanic households continue to be about twice as likely as white households to rent their homes . In 2016 , 58 % of black household heads and 54 % of Hispanic household heads were renting their homes , compared with 28 % of whites . But all major racial and ethnic groups were more likely to rent in 2016 than a decade earlier .
Puerto Ricans account for a rapidly increasing share of Florida 's Hispanic eligible voters – U.S. citizens who are 18 years or older , regardless of whether they have registered to vote . Puerto Ricans now make up about a third ( 31 % ) of these adults , a similar share to that of Cubans ( 31 % ) , according to a separate Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data .
Regardless of degree of concern about the issue of GM foods , more Americans say that scientists should play a major role in policy decisions on GM foods than say the same about food industry leaders ( 60 % vs. 42 % ) . Some 57 % of Americans think the general public should have a major say in policies related to GM foods as well .
Most people prefer America over China as the world 's leading power . While many people believe China currently is the world 's top economic power , a median of 63 % across the nations surveyed say having the U.S. as the world 's leading power would be better for the world . In contrast , just 19 % say a world in which China was the leading power would be better . In the Asia-Pacific region , more prefer U.S. leadership over China . Preference for America is particularly high among China 's nearest neighbors : 81 % of Japanese , 77 % of Filipinos and 73 % of South Koreans favor Washington 's leadership over that of Beijing .
As of 2019 , there were 25 AM or FM stations listed as `` all-news '' in the BIA Advisory Services database of radio stations . Entercom ( which merged with CBS Corp. in 2017 ) is currently the parent company of 10 of these 25 stations .
Guatemalan immigrants around the world sent home $ 7.5 billion in remittances in 2016 , while Salvadorans sent $ 4.6 billion and Hondurans $ 3.9 billion , according to World Bank data . The vast majority of the money came from immigrants in the U.S .
When asked about a number of issues that might cause them to lose their current jobs , just 11 % of workers are at least somewhat concerned that they might lose their jobs because their employer replaces human workers with machines or computer programs . On the other hand , roughly one-in-five express concern that they might lose their jobs because their employer finds other ( human ) workers to perform their jobs for less money or because their overall industry workforce is shrinking . The most prominent concern is poor management by their own employer , albeit by a narrow margin , among the five evaluated in this survey : Workers whose jobs involve primarily manual or physical labor2 express heightened concern about all of these potential employment threats , especially when it comes to replacement by robots or other machines . Fully 17 % of these workers are at least somewhat concerned about the threat from workforce automation , with 11 % indicating that they are `` very concerned . '' By contrast , just 5 % of workers whose jobs do not involve manual labor express some level of concern about the threat of workforce automation .
About three-in-four Americans ( 73 % ) say it 's likely that social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints they find objectionable , according to the June survey . Public perceptions have not changed much since the question was last asked in May and June of 2018 . And while majorities in both parties believe censorship is likely occurring , Republicans are much more likely than Democrats to say this ( 90 % vs. 59 % ) .
Women , who fared better than men in the recession , have not done as well in the recovery . Men realized a gain of 2.6 million jobs from the fourth quarter of 2009 to the fourth quarter of 2011 , compared with only 0.6 million for women . Nonetheless , compared with before the start of the recession in 2007 , employment levels for men are down by more , a loss of 3.4 % for men versus 2.9 % for women . Thus , men still face a steeper climb back .
Clinton supporters ( 60 % ) are more likely than Trump supporters ( 51 % ) to view a concession as very important . Only about one in five of each candidate 's supporters ( 21 % of Trump backers , 16 % of Clinton backers ) say this is not important . By contrast , roughly twice as many Johnson and Stein supporters ( 41 % ) think it is not too or not at all important that the losing candidate publicly acknowledge the winner as the legitimate president .
Republicans have recently turned negative in their assessments of the impact of colleges and universities , and a new survey finds that they also have a skeptical view of college professors . More Republicans offer a cold than warm view of professors on a `` feeling thermometer '' scale ranging from 0 to 100 , with an average rating of 46 . The Pew Research Center survey , conducted on the American Trends Panel in August , asks the public to rate a number of groups on a `` feeling thermometer '' from 0 to 100 , where 0 is the coldest , most negative rating and 100 is the warmest , most positive . Overall , about half of the public ( 49 % ) gives college professors at least a somewhat warm rating , including a third ( 33 % ) who rate professors very warmly . Fewer ( 24 % ) give professors a cold rating , while 26 % have a neutral view of professors . Democrats have a broadly positive view of college professors . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) give professors a warm rating , while just 7 % offer a cold rating and 24 % express a neutral view . Liberal Democrats are more likely than conservative and moderate Democrats to rate professors warmly , though majorities of both groups do so ( 76 % and 56 % , respectively ) . Views among Republicans are much chillier : 43 % give cold ratings to college professors , including about a quarter ( 27 % ) who give a very cold rating . A significantly smaller share of Republicans ( 30 % ) give professors a warm rating , while 25 % take a neutral view . Conservative Republicans are especially likely to give very ( 31 % ) or somewhat ( 20 % ) cold ratings to professors . By contrast , moderate and liberal Republicans hold quite different views : More offer warm ( 49 % ) than cold ( 20 % ) assessments of professors .
Young 's situation of working while pregnant is much more common today than it was before the Pregnancy Discrimination Act . Among women who had their first child in the early 1960s , just 44 % worked at all during pregnancy . The likelihood that an American woman would work while pregnant increased dramatically through the 1960s and 1970s , and by the late 1980s , 67 % of women pregnant with their first child remained on the job . Those rates have leveled off since then , and the latest figures show that 66 % of mothers who gave birth to their first child between 2006 and 2008 worked during their pregnancy , according to Census Bureau data . The data suggest that not only are a higher share of women expecting their first child continuing to work , but they are working longer into their pregnancy . In the early 1960s , most working women pregnant with their first child ( 65 % ) stopped working more than a month before the birth , while just about a third ( 35 % ) continued working into their final month . By the late 2000s , that trend had reversed . About eight-in-ten pregnant workers ( 82 % ) continued in the workplace until within one month of their first birth , compared with just 18 % who stopped working before then . Women are also returning to work much sooner after their first birth than in previous decades . Among women who worked during their pregnancy and had their first child in the early 1960s , just 21 % had returned to work six months after their child 's birth . Among those who had their first birth between 2005 and 2007 , 73 % had done so .
News coverage of the candidates has fluctuated according to campaign events . Nonetheless , Obama has generally dominated the news cycle as well . According to the Project for Excellence in Journalism 's ( PEJ ) Campaign Coverage Index , Obama has received more press coverage than either Clinton or McCain in 11 of the past 17 weeks . Clinton has dominated the campaign coverage in 4 of the last 17 weeks . McCain has not led the two Democratic candidates in terms of news coverage since the week of Feb. 4 - 10 , when he became the presumptive Republican nominee following his victories in the GOP Super Tuesday primaries .
Overall , a majority of Americans say they have a mostly positive view of medical doctors ( 72 % ) , and the same is true for medical research scientists ( 66 % ) . Views of these scientists have not changed substantially since the question was last asked in January 2019 , before the COVID-19 outbreak .
Christians are declining as a share of the U.S. population , while the number of U.S. adults who do not identify with any organized religion is growing . While the U.S. remains home to more Christians than any other country , the percentage of Americans identifying as Christian dropped from 78 % in 2007 to 71 % in 2014 . By contrast , religious `` nones , '' driven in large part by Millennials , have surged seven percentage points in that time span to make up 23 % of U.S. adults last year .
This attitude manifests itself in differences between European and American Millennials ' views on what it takes to get ahead in life . For example , only about one-in-five French Millennials , one-in-four Greek Millennials and one-in-three Polish Millennials rate a good education as `` very important to getting ahead in life . '' By comparison , fully 58 % of Americans that age see education as strongly necessary for a successful future .
The public gives the `` typical American '' a mixed assessment when asked about specific traits . Most ( 79 % ) agree that the term `` patriotic '' describes the typical American very or fairly well , and majorities also view the typical American as `` honest '' ( 69 % ) and `` intelligent '' ( 67 % ) .
About one-in-four mothers are raising their children on their own . While most U.S. mothers are married ( 68 % ) , nearly one-quarter ( 24 % ) are solo moms . All told , about 9 million mothers are living with a child younger than 18 without a spouse or partner . Solo motherhood is particularly common among black mothers ( 56 % are in this category ) . By comparison , 26 % of Hispanic moms , 17 % of white moms and 9 % of Asian moms are solo parents . ( Solo parenthood is far less common among fathers : 7 % of dads are raising a child without a spouse or partner in the home . )
Mode also generally had a more pronounced effect on the responses from Democrats than on the responses from Republicans . Democrats , including independents who lean Democratic , were 17 points more likely to say that they followed news when asked on the phone ( 66 % ) than on the web ( 49 % ) . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , by comparison , there was just a 7-point gap between those who were asked about their news habits on the phone ( 59 % ) and the web ( 52 % ) .
Changing views on whether U.S. does too much – or too little – globally . Americans are now evenly split over whether the U.S. does too little ( 33 % ) , too much ( 30 % ) or the right amount ( 29 % ) to solve world problems ; that is a change from two years ago , when the plurality view ( 41 % ) was that the U.S. did too much globally . The shift has been driven by changes among partisans : Republicans and Republican-leaning independents increasingly say the U.S. is doing the right amount globally , while Democrats and Democratic leaners increasingly think the U.S. is doing too little to solve world problems .
There are also modest associations between two of the Big Five personality dimensions — openness to experience and extraversion — and preferences toward new technology . Americans with higher openness to experience are more likely to prefer early technology adoption ; a third of those more open to experience have a high score on the index , compared with a quarter among those who are lower . Extroverts are also more likely than introverts to strongly prefer new technology products on this measure ( 31 % for those who score high on extroversion compared with 24 % for those who score low ) .
Public attention to the major oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico has yet to drop off as significantly as media coverage . Currently , 39 % say they followed news about the leak very closely last week , not much different from the 42 % that said this one week earlier . Still , that is down sharply from 59 % in the July 22 - 25 survey . More than four-in-ten ( 44 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely last week . The oil leak accounted for 3 % of the coverage measured by PEJ , down from 11 % one week earlier . With the underground well largely sealed , coverage has declined greatly since a peak of 44 % of the newshole in mid-June .
Though Americans focused most closely last week on economic news , 16 % say they followed the debate over ways to improve the nation 's public education system more closely than any other top story . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say they followed this story very closely . News about the education debate accounted for 6 % of the newshole . More than one-in-ten ( 12 % ) say they followed news about the midterm elections most closely . A quarter ( 25 % ) say they followed this news very closely , comparable to the levels of interest each week since the start of September . The media devoted 26 % of coverage to the elections . News about al Qaeda 's alleged plans for terror attacks in Europe was the most closely followed story for 5 % , while the story garnered 2 % of coverage . Similarly , 3 % say they followed news about peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians most closely ; 2 % of the news coverage was dedicated to that issue . The situation in Afghanistan attracted a little more attention from both the public and the media : 9 % say this is the story they followed most closely , and 4 % of the coverage focused on this subject . Almost a quarter say they followed news about Afghanistan very closely ( 23 % ) , while 18 % say the same about possible al Qaeda plans for terror attacks in Europe . About one-in-ten people ( 11 % ) say they followed news about the Israeli-Palestinian peace talks very closely .
Americans say they tracked news about the newly enacted health care reform law more closely than other major news stories last week , though the health care debate did not dominate coverage as it had during the final votes in Congress late last month . Close to half the public ( 48 % ) followed news about the new health care law most closely last week , dwarfing the 8 % following the other top policy story , the economy , that closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press among 1,016 adults April 1 - 5 . In terms of coverage , economic news rivaled news about health care . The economy made up 10 % of coverage , while health care news made up 9 % .
According to data compiled by Eurostat , the European Union 's statistical agency , 81 % of the 689,000 people who had formally applied for asylum in EU countries this year ( through August ) were younger than 35 ; more than half ( 55 % ) were ages 18 to 34 . Hundreds of thousands more refugees are expected to arrive before year 's end ; one news report states that German authorities expect as many as 1.5 million asylum-seekers in that country this year .
Awareness of last year 's riots in France is relatively high among both the general publics and Muslim minorities in Western Europe , ranging among the general population from 91 % in Germany to 78 % in Spain and among Muslims from 86 % in Germany to 63 % in Britain . In Japan , 89 % had heard the news .
Growing numbers of Americans believe that U.S. global power and prestige are in decline . And support for U.S. global engagement , already near a historic low , has fallen further . The public thinks that the nation does too much to solve world problems , and increasing percentages want the U.S. to `` mind its own business internationally '' and pay more attention to problems here at home . The survey of the general public , conducted Oct. 30-Nov. 6 among 2,003 adults , finds that views of U.S. global importance and power have passed a key milestone . For the first time in surveys dating back nearly 40 years , a majority ( 53 % ) says the United States plays a less important and powerful role as a world leader than it did a decade ago . The share saying the U.S. is less powerful has increased 12 points since 2009 and has more than doubled – from just 20 % – since 2004 .
Americans say they have very little understanding of current data protection laws , and most are in favor of more government regulation . Just 3 % of U.S. adults say they have `` a lot '' of understanding of the current laws and regulations in place to protect their data privacy , with 63 % saying they understand very little or not at all . However , the majority of Americans support more government regulation in this area . Some 75 % of U.S. adults say there should be more government regulation of what companies can do with customers ' personal information . These numbers echo figures from an earlier Pew Research Center phone survey from 2013 , not based on the American Trends Panel , which found that 68 % of internet users believed the current laws were n't good enough at protecting people 's privacy online .
In early January , 46 % of the public said `` a large number of refugees leaving countries such as Iraq and Syria '' was a major threat to the well-being of the U.S. About a third ( 35 % ) considered this a minor threat , while 16 % said this was not a threat . Older adults were far more likely than young people to view the large number of refugees from Iraq and Syria as a major threat . A majority of adults 50 and older ( 58 % ) viewed the large number of refugees from nations such as Iraq and Syria as a major threat , compared with 43 % of those ages 35 to 49 and just 31 % of those younger than 35 .
Seven-in-ten U.S. adults say it is at least somewhat likely that their own phone calls and emails are being monitored by the government , including 37 % who believe that this type of surveillance is `` very likely , '' according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in February . Most notably , nearly eight-in-ten U.S. adults under the age of 50 think it is likely that the government is tracking their communications , compared with around six-in-ten of those 50 and older .
As candidates in both parties prepare for the next round of presidential debates , a new national survey finds that the public is highly engaged by the 2016 campaign . Fully 74 % of Americans say they have given a lot or some thought to the candidates , higher than the shares saying this at comparable points in the past two presidential campaigns . The presidential debates clearly have been a hit with the public . Nearly seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) say they have watched at least some of the televised debates between the candidates . In December 2007 – the most recent election in which there were contested nominations in both parties – just 43 % reported watching any of the debates .
Even though mobile technology often simplifies the completion of everyday tasks , cell phone owners can also encounter technical glitches and unwanted intrusions on their phones . In an April 2012 survey , the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project assessed the prevalence of four problems that cell owners might face . Some 55 % of cell phone owners say they use their phones to go online— to browse the internet , exchange emails , or download apps . We asked them if they experience slow download speeds that prevent things from loading as quickly as they would like :
Among foreign policy experts , a minority ( 30 % ) supports a system of government in which experts make decisions according to what they think is best for the country . Public opinion on the benefits of government by experts largely mirrors the views of these experts . A median of 42 % think it would be a good way to run their country . However , support varies considerably across Europe , ranging from a high of 68 % in Hungary to a low of 31 % in Greece . The U.S. stands out as the country in which the public is most likely to see this option as very bad for the country ( 31 % ) .
Fewer say there is at least some chance they would vote for Ron Paul ( 42 % ) or Michelle Bachmann ( 39 % ) . Substantial majorities of those who have heard of Sarah Palin and Newt Gingrich have ruled out voting for them ; 67 % say there is no chance they would vote for Palin while 66 % say there is no chance they would vote for Gingrich .
Social media has grown as a source for news : 19 % of Americans saw news on a social network `` yesterday '' in 2012 , more than double the 9 % who had done so in 2010 . Those in their 30s ( 30 % ) are nearly as likely as those 18 - 24 ( 34 % ) to say they saw news or news headlines on Facebook or another social networking site yesterday .
Overall , 48 % of U.S. adults say medical treatments are `` worth the costs because they allow people to live longer and better quality lives , '' while a similar share ( 51 % ) says such treatments `` often create as many problems as they solve . '' As Americans assess potential problems with health care , most demographic and political groups are closely divided over whether medical treatments are worth the costs because they allow people to live longer and better quality lives , or whether medical treatments often create as many problems as they solve .
Overall , 15 % of blacks and 18 % of Latinos have used ride-hailing , similar to the 14 % of whites who have done so , according to a Pew Research Center survey exploring the digital economy . And a new analysis of this survey data finds that Americans who live in majority-minority communities ( census-block groups where more than 50 % of residents are racial or ethnic minorities ) are more likely than those who reside in predominately white neighborhoods to say that ride-hailing apps serve neighborhoods that taxis wo n't visit . Just over half ( 53 % ) of ride-hailing users living in majority-minority communities feel that this statement describes ride-hailing well , compared with 46 % of users living in majority-white neighborhoods . ( Many ride-hailers – about four-in-ten overall – were unsure if this statement described ride-hailing well ) . In sharp contrast to ride-hailing services , few blacks make use of home-sharing sites like Airbnb and VRBO : Just 5 % of blacks have ever used these services , compared with 13 % of whites . And although blacks are less likely than whites to say they travel overnight away from home for work or personal reasons , even among those who do travel on occasion , whites ( 16 % ) are still substantially more likely than blacks ( 5 % ) to use home-sharing services .
Lower fertility rates and aging populations have become worldwide concerns , but the G7 nations – Canada , France , Germany , Italy , Japan , the United Kingdom and the United States – have stood out for their lower birth rates and graying of their citizens since the mid-20th century , when the United Nations first recorded this data . The biggest gap occurred during 1970 - 1975 , when the group of leading industrial nations was established . At that time , the global fertility rate was 4.47 projected lifetime births per woman , but 2.03 among G7 nations . The gap between global fertility rates and those of the G7 nations has closed dramatically since then , and the UN projects that the gap between global and G7 fertility will continue to narrow .
Along with growing distaste for Western powers , Russians also have little faith in Western leaders . Only 28 % of Russians have confidence in German Chancellor Angela Merkel to handle international affairs , and even fewer have confidence in President Barack Obama ( 11 % confidence ) .
Interest in current news from Egypt is low across all demographic groups . And there are no significant partisan differences in opinions about the importance of events in Egypt to U.S. interests and the influence of the United States on the current situation there . Currently , 40 % of independents , 36 % of Democrats and 35 % of Republicans say what happens in Egypt is very important to U.S. interests . In a February 2011 poll by CBS News , 53 % of Republicans , 47 % of Democrats and 44 % of independents held this view .
There continue to be wide differences across income categories in assessments of the impact of financial pressures , but health care costs is a top household financial pressure across all income levels . About half ( 53 % ) of households earning $ 100,000 or more a year say it affects their financial situations a lot ; about as many ( 52 % ) of those earning $ 30,000 a year or less say the same . On the impact of other pressures , there are some substantial differences across income groups . While about six-in-ten in lower income households say the prices of food and consumer goods impacts their finances a lot ( 59 % of those in households with incomes of less than $ 30,000 a year ) , four-in-ten of those in higher income households say the same ( 40 % of households making $ 75,000 annually or more ) .
A 54 % majority of women voters say they support or lean toward the Democratic candidate in their district , while 38 % favor the Republican . Among men voters , by contrast , 49 % favor the Republican , while 43 % support the Democrat . The gender divide is much wider among younger voters – those under 35 – than among voters 35 and older .
Americans are divided over the executive action President Obama announced last November expanding the number of undocumented immigrants permitted to work and stay in the U.S. About as many disapprove ( 50 % ) as approve ( 46 % ) of Obama 's action , which could make up to 4 million people newly eligible for deportation relief , according to a survey last December . About eight-in-ten Republicans ( 82 % ) disapprove of the executive action and about seven-in-ten Democrats ( 71 % ) approve of it , with very strong attitudes on both sides . Hispanics overwhelmingly support the deportation-relief action : 81 % approve , including 59 % who very strongly approve . But non-Hispanic whites disapprove of it by nearly two-to-one ( 62 % vs. 34 % ) , with nearly half ( 49 % ) disapproving very strongly .
The public 's news interests are largely unchanged from a week earlier . But news organizations suddenly shifted their focus from Japan to the ongoing military action in Libya . News about Libya accounted for 41 % of news coverage this week , compared with just 15 % devoted to the Japan crisis , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Just a week earlier , news from Japan accounted for more than half ( 57 % ) of all news coverage .
In terms of public opinion , a majority in South Africa agrees with the statement that immigrants are a burden on the country because they take jobs and social benefits . Immigrant-related anxiety is also evident when South Africans were asked who is to blame for crime and terrorism , with most saying immigrants are more to blame for crime than other groups in South Africa ( 61 % ) and that they are more likely to increase the country 's risk of terrorism ( 62 % ) . A previous Pew Research Center report found that South Africans are somewhat more negative about immigrants than other publics surveyed . Though a majority says immigrants are burdensome , over half ( 55 % ) say immigrants want to adopt South African customs and way of life .
The ages of 12 to 14 seem to be a major milestone in parents ' eyes for smartphones . This survey finds that a majority of parents ( 73 % ) believe it is acceptable for children to have their own phone only after they have reached at least the age of 12 . Some 45 % say smartphone ownership is acceptable between the ages of 12 and 14 , and 28 % say it is acceptable between the ages of 15 and 17 . Just 22 % think it is OK for a child under the age of 12 to have one . When asked about the appropriate age for a child to have their own tablet , parents are more accepting of children having one at a younger age . Fully 65 % of parents say it is acceptable for child to have their own tablet computer before the age of 12 .
The term `` Cuban '' is applied to persons who identified themselves as such in responding to a question on Hispanic or Latino origins . This includes both persons born in Cuba and those born elsewhere who identified themselves as being of Cuban origins , e.g . persons of Cuban parentage born in the U.S . The terms `` other Hispanics '' and `` other Latinos '' refer to non-Cubans .
As desegregation , rising incomes and increased access to financial aid resulted in more college options for blacks , the share of blacks attending HBCUs began to shrink . By fall 1980 , 17 % of black students enrolled in degree-granting institutions were enrolled at an HBCU . By 2000 , that share had declined to 13 % , and it stood at 9 % in 2015 .
The economy was the public 's top story last week , outpacing interest in the election and news about events in Afghanistan . Overall , 36 % say they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely compared with 31 % who very closely followed election news and 18 % who followed the current situation and events in Afghanistan . A week prior , public interest was divided among the economy , Hurricane Isaac and the election . A third ( 33 % ) said the followed news about the economy very closely , 31 % followed news about Hurricane Isaac very closely and 29 % followed news about the candidates for the 2012 presidential election very closely .
About three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 77 % ) say they own a smartphone , up from 35 % in 2011 , making the smartphone one of the most quickly adopted consumer technologies in recent history . Smartphone ownership is more common among those who are younger or more affluent . For example , 92 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say they own a smartphone , compared with 42 % of those who are ages 65 and older . Still , adoption rates have risen rapidly among older and lower-income Americans in recent years . From 2013 to 2016 , the share of adults 65 and older who report owning a smartphone has risen 24 percentage points ( from 18 % to 42 % ) . There has also been a 12-point increase in smartphone ownership among households earning less than $ 30,000 per year : 64 % of these lower-income Americans now own a smartphone .
While coal is still the single largest fuel source for U.S. power plants , its share has declined sharply in recent years , as older coal-fired plants have been shuttered in favor of newer plants fueled by natural gas . Last year , 39 % of U.S. electricity was generated by coal , down from nearly half a decade earlier ( though coal has regained a bit of that market share recently ) . By 2035 , natural gas will surpass coal as the largest source of U.S. electricity generation , according to U.S. Energy Information Administration projections . One reason electricity generators are switching to natural gas is that it produces far less carbon dioxide , a potent greenhouse gas , than coal does . Coal accounted for nearly three-quarters of all power generation-related carbon dioxide emissions in 2012 , despite generating about 40 % of the nation 's electricity , according to the EIA . Natural gas accounted for nearly all the remaining generation-related carbon dioxide .
The New York Times has the highest proportion of adults ages 18 to 29 who name it as their main source , at 29 % . Those ages 30 to 49 are most likely to name NPR ( 49 % ) .
The brunt of layoffs hit mid-market newspapers in 2018 . Mid-market newspapers – those with average Sunday circulations between 100,000 and 249,999 – were more likely than either lower- or higher-circulation newspapers to have experienced layoffs in 2018 . Roughly a third of mid-market newspapers ( 36 % ) had layoffs , compared with 18 % of lower-circulation newspapers ( those with circulations between 50,000 and 99,999 ) and 29 % of high-circulation newspapers ( at least 250,000 ) . The share of layoffs at mid-market newspapers increased somewhat between 2017 and 2018 , while it declined for both lower- and high-circulation papers .
Among Democrats who encounter immigrants who speak little or no English , the share saying they are not bothered by this has increased from 63 % to 85 % since 2006 . About six-in-ten Republicans ( 59 % ) say they are not bothered ; 52 % said this 12 years ago .
When it comes to the impact on their community , about half of adults ( 48 % ) say that filling out the census form will have a beneficial effect and half ( 48 % ) say it will have neither a beneficial nor a harmful one . Another 3 % say it will harm their community .
People in emerging and developing countries around the world are on balance unhappy with the way their political systems are working . A recent Pew Research Center survey finds that , across 31 emerging and developing nations , a median of 52 % are dissatisfied with their political system , while 44 % are satisfied . Discontent is particularly widespread in the Middle East and Latin America , where about six-in-ten say their system is not working well . The opposite is true , however , in Asia – a median of 60 % are either very or somewhat satisfied with their political system .
Elsewhere in the world , a similar pattern often holds — those who hold positive views about the major powers in the international system also tend to assign positive ratings to the world 's leading international institution . For instance , attitudes toward the U.N. are often linked to attitudes about the world 's most powerful nation , the United States . Overall , across the 24 nations ( other than the U.S. ) included in the Pew Global Attitudes poll , ratings for the U.N. and the U.S. are correlated at the .72 level , suggesting a close relationship between perceptions of the U.N. and its host country .
There are similar differences among typology groups in opinions about more gays and lesbians raising children . While 40 % of Solid Liberals view this trend as good thing for society , just 9 % of Hard-Pressed Democrats and 10 % of New Coalition Democrats agree .
With Congress wrapping up work for its August recess , much of the coverage of the health care debate shifted to the town hall meetings last week . Health care maintained its spot atop the media 's agenda for the third straight week , though coverage was down slightly , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . The story accounted for 16 % of the newshole , down from 19 % the previous week and 25 % the week before that . Meanwhile , four-in-ten Americans say they followed health care news very closely last week , down from the 47 % that said the same the week before .
Hispanics ' views of the impact of unauthorized immigration on the U.S. Hispanic community have grown more positive since 2010 , according to a new nationwide survey of 5,103 Hispanic adults by the Pew Research Center . Today , 45 % of Hispanic adults say the impact of unauthorized immigration on Hispanics already living in the U.S. is positive , up 16 percentage points from 2010 when 29 % said the same .
Poverty rates among African-Americans has fallen considerably since the 1960s , according to Census Bureau figures , but they remain far more likely than whites or Asians to live in poverty . And after years of decline , the black poverty rate has crept higher over the past decade .
Although the overall U.S. poverty rate declined and incomes rose rapidly for the second straight year in 2016 , many poor Americans fell deeper into poverty , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . The share of the U.S. poor population in severe poverty – defined by the Census Bureau as those with family or individual incomes below half of their poverty threshold – reached its highest point in at least 20 years . It was 45.6 % in 2016 , up from 39.5 % in 1996 . ( The share of the total U.S. population in severe poverty has declined over the past two years , alongside the overall poverty rate . )
Independents feel more negatively about political candidates and parties than partisans . In early 2018 , similar shares of Republicans ( 77 % ) and Democrats ( 74 % ) said the quality of candidates running for Congress in their district in the last several elections had been good . But those who leaned toward the parties were much less likely to say this .
Online women are also more likely than online men to use Facebook and Instagram . Some 77 % of online women are Facebook users , compared with two-thirds of online men . Instagram use follows a similar pattern , with online women being more inclined to use the picture-sharing site than men ( 31 % vs. 24 % ) .
Still , Czechs are divided as to whether open markets have yet to deliver benefits to the average person . When asked to consider whether the economic situation for most people today is better , worse or about the same as it was under communism , 45 % of Czechs said better while 39 % said worse . Even so , the Czech Republic and Poland stand apart from other former communist states in that they were the only countries in which a plurality said people are better off today economically than under communism .
As Obama nears the end of his presidency , his overall approval rating has steadily risen over the last year . Today , 58 % say they approve of how he 's handling his job , while 37 % disapprove . More now approve of Obama 's job performance than at any point since shortly after he was re-elected in 2012 . Today , nearly nine-in-ten Democrats ( 88 % ) say they approve of the job Obama is doing as president , while just 15 % of Republicans say the same . A 58 % majority of independents say they approve of the way Obama is handling his job , up six points from October and 16 points from a year ago .
Another outcome is that both the military and the general public agree that Americans do n't understand military life . More than eight-in-ten ( 84 % ) of post-9/11 veterans say the public does not understand well or at all the problems that those in the military face . That view is shared by 76 % of pre-9/11 veterans and 71 % of the public .
Voters who cast their ballots for President-elect Joe Biden are much more hopeful than Biden supporters were in June : 72 % now say they are hopeful about the country , compared with 42 % then . There also has been a sharp decline in the share of Biden supporters who feel angry , from 80 % then to 56 % now .
The share of U.S. adults who say they use certain online platforms or apps is statistically unchanged from where it stood in early 2018 despite a long stretch of controversies over privacy , fake news and censorship on social media , according to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted Jan. 8 to Feb. 7 , 2019 . More broadly , the steady growth in adoption that social platforms have experienced in the United States over the past decade also appears to be slowing . The shares of adults who say they use Facebook , Pinterest , LinkedIn and Twitter are each largely the same as in 2016 , with only Instagram showing an uptick in use during this time period . ( There are no comparable 2016 phone survey data for YouTube , Snapchat , WhatsApp or Reddit . ) Facebook – which recently celebrated its 15th anniversary – remains one of the most widely used social media sites among adults in the U.S . Roughly seven-in-ten adults ( 69 % ) say they ever use the platform . ( A separate 2018 Center survey showed Facebook use among U.S. teens had dropped in recent years . ) YouTube is the only other online platform measured that matches Facebook 's reach : 73 % of adults report using the video sharing site . But certain online platforms , most notably Instagram and Snapchat , have an especially strong following among young adults .
Half of Americans ( 48 % ) say two is the ideal number of children for a family to have , reflecting a decades-long preference for a smaller family over a larger one . But that has n't always been the case , according to Gallup . In 1971 , there was a shift in attitudes , as Americans ' `` ideal '' family switched from four kids ( 19 % ) to two kids ( 38 % ) , with a mean saying 2.9 kids was ideal . Back in 1936 , the mean ideal number of kids was 3.6 , with 22 % saying four children ; 32 % saying three children ; and another 32 % saying two children . Fast-forward from the 1930s to 2013 , the most recent data available , and you get a different picture , with 2.6 as the mean ideal .
American public opinion regarding China is roughly divided between those with a favorable ( 39 % ) and those with an unfavorable ( 42 % ) view . U.S. attitudes toward China have changed little since 2007 , when 42 % had a positive and 39 % a negative opinion . Ratings for China are decidedly negative in three of the four Western European countries included in the survey . Fewer than one-in-three respondents in Germany , France or Spain express a positive opinion . Moreover , attitudes toward China have grown more negative in all three countries since last year . This is especially true in France , where China 's favorability rating has plummeted from 47 % to 28 % . This year 's decline continues a slide among Western Europeans over the last few years — since 2005 , China 's favorability score has dropped 30 percentage points in France , 26 points in Spain , and 20 points in Germany . And while a plurality in Great Britain continues to express a positive view , opinions of China there are down significantly from 2005 , when 65 % offered a positive rating .
Younger people are much less optimistic that economic conditions will improve compared with older Americans . Nearly seven-in-ten of those ages 65 and older ( 69 % ) think the economy will be better in a year . By contrast , fewer than half ( 42 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 think things will be better , while 34 % expect conditions to be worse in a year . While younger people were slightly less optimistic about the future economy even prior to the current downturn , the age gap is now substantially wider than it was in January .
Among industries , which refer to the kind of business conducted by an employer , immigrants accounted for more than a quarter of workers in the agriculture sector , the highest of any industry . Unauthorized immigrants ( 14 % ) and legal immigrants ( 15 % ) accounted for similar shares of agriculture workers .
But generations cover a long period of time . Generations typically encompass a cohort of people born over a 15- to-18-year span ; for example , the Baby Boom generation includes people born between 1946 and 1964 . As a result , the formative political experiences of the youngest and oldest members of each generation can differ considerably , and these differences may be reflected in divergent political attitudes and partisanship within generations . The overall pattern reflects generational differences in party identification . Millennials generally are more likely than other generations to lean Democratic . The Silent Generation is more likely to lean Republican . The partisan preferences of the two generations in between – Generation X and the Baby Boomers – are closer to the average partisan leanings of the public ; in Pew Research Center political surveys conducted in 2014 , Democrats had an 8.8 % overall advantage in leaned party identification .
The November 5 shootings at the Fort Hood Army post in Texas – which resulted in the death of 13 Americans – was the public 's top news story last week . News coverage of the tragedy was also high , with the national media devoting more attention to the story than to any other . Three-in-ten Americans followed news about the shootings at Fort Hood more closely than any other news story last week . In addition , the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted November 6 - 9 among 1,001 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , finds that 44 % say they paid very close attention to the shootings . According to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , news coverage of the Fort Hood rampage accounted for 15 % of the overall weekly newshole . In the three days immediately following the shootings , coverage accounted for more than a third ( 34 % ) of the newshole monitored by PEJ . Other leading stories – tracked over the full course of the week – such as health care reform and the off-year elections filled a somewhat smaller percentage of the newshole ( 8 % and 13 % , respectively ) .
Even though the federal minimum wage has remained at $ 7.25 an hour since 2009 , most Americans are now covered by higher minimums set by state and local laws – from Los Angeles to New York state to Washington , D.C . Organized labor and anti-poverty groups continue to push for $ 15 an hour as the new standard for all workers paid hourly , though given Republican control of Congress that prospect appears dim . Adjusted for inflation , the federal minimum wage peaked in 1968 at $ 8.68 ( in 2016 dollars ) . Since it was last raised in 2009 , to the current $ 7.25 per hour , the federal minimum has lost about 9.6 % of its purchasing power to inflation . Back in 2015 , The Economist estimated that , given how rich the U.S. is and the pattern among other advanced economies in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , `` one would expect America … to pay a minimum wage around $ 12 an hour . ''
Along with communicating extensively via untethered mobile devices , Twitter users are more likely to consume news and information on these devices as well . For many Twitter users , learning about and sharing relevant and recent nuggets of information is a primary utility of the service . While Twitter users are just as likely as others to consume news on any given day , they are more likely to consume it on mobile devices and less likely to engage with news via more traditional outlets . Twitterers are less likely to read a printed copy of a newspaper , but more likely to read a newspaper online , and more likely to read a news story on a cell phone or on a smart phone . A similar pattern holds for video news consumption ; on any given day , Twitter users are just as likely as others to watch news on a TV , and just as likely to watch video news on a computer , but more likely to watch a news video on a cell phone or on a smart phone .
In 15 surveyed countries , people on the ideological right also are more likely to see Trump 's policies favorably , as measured by the approval index . This is especially the case in Israel , Australia , Greece , the UK , Canada and Hungary . Those on the ideological right also are considerably more likely to express net approval of Trump 's policies in Italy , Sweden , France , the Netherlands , South Korea and Bulgaria . In countries where people have less confidence in Trump to do what is right in world affairs , fewer people generally approve of policies . In Mexico , Germany , Turkey and Tunisia , for example , confidence in Trump is very low , as is the share of people who express net approval of his chief foreign policies . Despite this relationship , the two countries where people are most likely to voice confidence in Trump – Israel and the Philippines – have very different views of his policies . While a majority of Israelis approve of more policies than they disapprove of , only 21 % of Filipinos are net approvers .
The public and the news media divided their attention last week among the top international stories , harsh winter weather , politics and the ongoing saga surrounding the death of Anna Nicole Smith . The Iraq war remained the No . 1 story both in terms of public interest and news coverage , however , the public hung on to the Anna Nicole Smith story , even as press coverage began to taper off .
As the death toll from the novel coronavirus pandemic continues to spiral , most Americans do not foresee a quick end to the crisis . In fact , 73 % of U.S. adults say that in thinking about the problems the country is facing from the coronavirus outbreak , the worst is still to come . With the Trump administration and many state governors actively considering ways to revive the stalled U.S. economy , the public strikes a decidedly cautious note on easing strict limits on public activity . About twice as many Americans say their greater concern is that state governments will lift restrictions on public activity too quickly ( 66 % ) as say it will not happen quickly enough ( 32 % ) .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) feel worn out by the amount of news there is , while far fewer ( 32 % ) say they like the amount of news they are getting , according to a Pew Research Center survey of more than 12,000 U.S. adults conducted in October and November of last year – the first survey in the Center 's nearly yearlong Election News Pathways project . This feeling of news fatigue has n't escaped journalists either , some of whom have voiced their exhaustion with the news cycle and the seemingly endless stream of information . In addition to differences by party and level of news engagement , one demographic divide stands out : race and ethnicity . Roughly three-quarters of white Americans ( 72 % ) feel news fatigue , 17 percentage points higher than both black ( 55 % ) and Hispanic Americans ( 55 % ) – and again similar to the divide measured in 2018 . Women are also slightly more likely than men to feel worn out by the amount of news there is ( 69 % vs. 63 % ) . But this sense of exhaustion with the news is about on par across age groups and levels of education .
Beyond the campaign , two news stories drew large audiences last week . Nearly one-in-three Americans ( 29 % ) paid very close attention to the U.S. Department of Agriculture 's recall of over 100 million pounds of frozen beef . Attention to this story was on par with other recent product recalls such as those affecting Chinese toys and other products last summer and fall and contaminated pet food last spring . Roughly one-in-ten ( 11 % ) said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week .
On balance , Republican and Republican leaners are more likely to side with Donald Trump over Republican leaders if there is a disagreement between them on an issue . About half ( 52 % ) say they would be more likely to trust Donald Trump , while only about a third ( 34 % ) say they would be more likely to trust Republican leaders in Congress . Younger Republicans ( those under 40 ) are the only subgroup of Republicans who say they are more inclined to trust Republican congressional leaders over Trump in the case of a disagreement between them . Just 36 % of Republicans under 40 say they would be more likely to trust Trump in this scenario , while 52 % say they would more likely to trust Republican leaders . Majorities of older Republicans say they would be more likely to trust Trump .
In addition , broad majorities in 31 of the 39 countries surveyed say the income gap has increased over the past five years . Reports of a rise in income inequality are particularly high in the advanced economies , where a median of 80 % say things have gotten worse , compared with medians of 70 % in the developing economies and 59 % in the emerging markets .
The JOLTS program does n't produce state-level data , but it does indicate that the South had the most job openings in April of any region – nearly 2.2 million – though the openings rate there ( 3.9 % ) was slightly below that of the nation as a whole . The Midwest had the nation 's highest regional openings rate ( 4.4 % ) , followed by the Northeast ( 4.1 % ) ; the rate in the West lagged behind at 3.6 % . Nationally , workers appear to be in shortest supply in two service sectors : professional/business services and healthcare/social assistance . Both had well over 1 million job openings in April – roughly one-third more than the sector with the third-highest number , accommodation and food services . All three of those sectors had openings rates of 5 % or higher , as did the catchall `` other services '' sector .
The public 's skepticism about U.S. international engagement has increased . Currently , 52 % say the United States `` should mind its own business internationally and let other countries get along the best they can on their own . '' Just 38 % disagree with that statement . This is the most lopsided balance in favor of the U.S. `` minding its own business '' in the nearly 50-year history of asking the American public 's view on this issue .
The national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Oct. 4 - 7 among 1,511 adults finds increasing numbers of Democrats , Republicans and independents saying there is solid evidence of warming , although there continues to be a substantial partisan divide on this issue . Fully 85 % of Democrats say there is solid evidence that the average temperature has been getting warmer , up from 77 % last year and similar to levels in 2007 and 2008 . Nearly half of Republicans ( 48 % ) say there is solid evidence of warming , compared with 43 % last year and 35 % in 2009 . The percentage of Republicans saying there is solid evidence of warming is still lower than it was in 2006 and 2007 , but is now about where it was in 2008 . A majority of independents ( 65 % ) say there is solid evidence of warming ; that is up from 53 % in 2009 and lower than from 2006 to 2008 .
As in the past , majorities across all demographic and partisan groups favor providing legal status to undocumented immigrants . Republicans ( 66 % ) continue to be less likely than independents ( 74 % ) or Democrats ( 80 % ) to support a path to legal status for those in the U.S. illegally .
Regarding the job situation , three-in-ten Democrats ( 30 % ) are hearing mostly good news about jobs , nearly double the share from February ( 16 % ) . By contrast , Republicans ' views are little changed since then and only 13 % say they are hearing mostly good news . Among independents , the percentage hearing mostly bad news about jobs has declined from 46 % in February to 31 % in the current survey .
In the U.S. , there has been a more dramatic rise in positive views of the UN over the past decade . In 2007 , 48 % of Americans had a favorable view of the UN , but that figure has since climbed to 64 % as of spring 2016 .
Of the more than 70,000 refugees who have been admitted to the U.S. so far in fiscal year 2016 , the largest numbers have come from the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Burma ( Myanmar ) and Syria . ( Refugees in the U.S. are defined differently and a different process is used in accepting refugees than in the EU . )
Against this backdrop , the public expressed rising concern about race relations . In an August survey conducted shortly after the violence in Charlottesville , nearly six-in-ten Americans said they viewed racism as a big problem in U.S. society — up 8 percentage points from 2015 and roughly double the share who held this view in November 2011 . But there were stark divisions along racial and partisan lines . For example , Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents were far more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to see racism as a big problem . A similar trend was evident on a separate question about whether white people in the U.S. benefit from societal advantages that blacks do not have : Democrats and Democratic leaners were much more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners to say whites do benefit from such advantages .
As they continue to struggle with the effects of the Great Recession , publics in advanced economies are pessimistic about the financial prospects for the next generation . Most of those surveyed in richer nations think children in their country will be worse off financially than their parents . In contrast , emerging and developing nations are more optimistic that the next generation will have a higher standard of living .
A 2017 Pew Research Center survey found that about half of Americans ( 53 % ) say most people in our society these days look up to men who are manly or masculine , with women more likely than men ( 62 % vs. 43 % ) and Democrats more likely than Republicans ( 58 % vs. 47 % ) to hold this view . About two-thirds of men who say society looks up to masculine men ( 68 % ) say this is a good thing ; a narrower majority of women ( 56 % ) say the same . Views differ more widely along party lines : Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents who say society values masculinity , 78 % say this is a good thing , compared with 49 % of their Democratic and Democratic-leaning counterparts .
As the Senate works toward a compromise on immigration reform , the emerging proposal addresses two widely-held public goals . Broad majorities – across party lines – continue to support a path to legalization for undocumented immigrants . And large majorities also say this legislation must include increased border security . But the public is divided on an issue that has been among the most contentious in Congress – whether border security must be achieved before the process of legalization can go forward . The national survey by the Pew Research Center and USA TODAY , conducted June 12 - 16 among 1,512 adults , finds that 43 % say that people in the U.S. illegally should be allowed to seek legal status only after effective border control is established , while 49 % say this can occur while border security improvements are being made .
Biden gets his most positive rating for his temperament : 60 % of registered voters describe him as even-tempered , more than twice the share who describe Trump this way . Moreover , a 54 % majority describes Biden as caring about the needs of ordinary people ; only 41 % say this phrase describes Trump very or somewhat well . And more voters say Biden is a good role model and describe him as honest than say that about Trump , by 15 percentage points and 12 points , respectively . Yet Biden has a notable weakness . Just 40 % of voters describe him as energetic – his lowest rating among the six traits included on the survey . This is Trump 's most positive attribute in the eyes of voters , with a 56 % majority describing him as energetic . There is only one trait of the six on which voters have similar views of the candidates ; 46 % say Trump is courageous while 45 % describe Biden this way , although more say this description applies to Trump very well ( 28 % vs. 15 % for Biden ) .
Around four-in-ten white evangelical Protestants ( 38 % ) say humans have always existed in their present form , and about a quarter ( 27 % ) of black Protestants share this view , according to the new study . Among white mainline Protestants , just 16 % say humans have always existed in their present form . Similar shares of Catholics ( 13 % ) and the religiously unaffiliated ( 11 % ) say the same . Only among the religiously unaffiliated – those who describe their religion as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' – do a majority ( 64 % ) accept evolution via natural selection with no involvement from God or a higher power . Both Protestants and Catholics are considerably more likely to say evolution was guided or allowed by God than they are to say that humans evolved due to processes such as natural selection , or to say that humans have always existed in their present form .
Fully 63 % say that `` the challenges faced by some U.S. soldiers returning from Iraq '' have received too little news coverage ; about the same number ( 61 % ) say that reports about soldiers ' personal experiences have been undercovered . A majority ( 52 % ) also says that efforts to improve conditions in Iraq are getting too little coverage .
The new survey finds little change in the public 's sympathies in the dispute between Israel and the Palestinians , or in views of Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu . About a third of Americans ( 31 % ) say they sympathize with Israel a lot in its dispute with the Palestinians , while 34 % say they sympathize with Israel some . Just 11 % sympathize a great deal with the Palestinians , and 35 % have some sympathy for the Palestinians . These views have not changed much since last August .
New arrivals who receive green cards , on the other hand , are far more likely to be sponsored by family members – fully 85 % are , compared with 46 % of those who adjusted their status in 2015 . Only 4 % of new arrivals came in an employment category . Green card holders who adjusted their status are more likely than new arrivals to be in the prime working years of 25 to 64 , and are less likely to be younger or older . Among those who adjusted their status , 72 % were ages 25 to 64 , compared with 55 % of new arrivals .
News about the economy continues to top the public 's news agenda . In the current survey , 38 % say they are following reports about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely , compared with 27 % who say they are following election news very closely .
Reflecting Republicans ' overwhelming opposition to the Iran nuclear agreement , 69 % of possible GOP primary voters say they would be more likely to support a candidate who wants to end the nuclear agreement . Just 14 % say they would be less likely to support a candidate who takes this position . Most possible GOP primary voters also say they would be more likely to vote for a candidate who wants to end federal funding for Planned Parenthood ( 56 % ) and to use U.S. ground forces to fight ISIS ( 53 % ) . Other candidate positions , including deporting all immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally and compromising with Democrats , have less appeal . And as many possible Republican primary voters say they would less likely ( 34 % ) , as more likely ( 31 % ) , to vote for a candidate who wants to raise taxes on wealthy Americans .
Asked if they feel that their phone represents `` freedom '' or `` a leash , '' 82 % of smartphone-owning seniors described their phone as freeing , compared with 64 % of those ages 18 to 29 . By contrast , 36 % of adult smartphone owners under the age of 30 described their phone as a leash , double the 18 % of adults ages 65 and older who chose this term to describe their phone .
Obama issued 277 executive orders during his eight years in office , or 35 per year . That 's slightly fewer than the 36 per year that George W. Bush issued and the lowest average since Grover Cleveland , who issued 32 per year during his eight nonconsecutive years in office , according to data from the American Presidency Project at the University of California at Santa Barbara . Overall , Obama ranks 16th among presidents in total number of executive orders issued and 21st in the average number issued per year .
As President Trump prepares for his address next week to a joint session of Congress , Republicans say they are more inclined to trust the president , rather than GOP congressional leaders , if the two sides disagree . In disputes with Congress , Republicans would trust Trump . About half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 52 % ) say that if Trump and Republican congressional leaders disagree on an issue , they would be more likely to trust Trump . About a third ( 34 % ) say they would trust GOP leaders if they have a disagreement with the president .
However , a year earlier , fewer Americans correctly answered a basic question about the court 's ruling on the Affordable Care Act . Despite a lengthy buildup to the court 's ruling and high public interest in the case , just 55 % knew that the court had upheld most provisions of the ACA ; 15 % said the court had rejected most parts of the law , while 30 % said they did n't know .
A rising share of unauthorized immigrants have lived in the U.S. for more than a decade . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) of unauthorized immigrant adults in 2017 had been in the U.S. more than 10 years , compared with 41 % in 2007 . A declining share of unauthorized immigrants have lived in the U.S. for five years or less – 20 % of adults in 2017 , compared with 30 % in 2007 . In 2017 , unauthorized immigrant adults had lived in the U.S. for a median of 15.1 years , meaning that half had been in the country at least that long .
Adults younger than 30 are also much more likely to have a favorable view of unions than of corporations ( 75 % vs. 55 % ) . Those in older age groups have similar opinions of unions and corporations . Roughly two-thirds ( 65 % ) of those with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more a year have a positive view of corporations , while smaller shares of those with incomes of $ 30,000- $ 74,999 ( 54 % ) and less than $ 30,000 ( 51 % ) say the same . Households earning less than $ 30,000 a year also are more favorable toward labor unions than business corporations – the only income group for which this is the case .
Examining the annual change on a quarterly basis suggests a change in the trend occurred in mid-2006 ( Figure 12 ) . In 2004 , apprehensions in every quarter were substantially higher than in the same quarter of 2003 , with increases ranging from 23,000 in the fourth quarter to 109,000 in the second quarter . During the first two quarters of 2005 , apprehensions were down somewhat compared to the same quarters of 2004 , but quarter-to-quarter increases were registered through the second half of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 . For four quarters in a row since the second quarter of 2006 , apprehensions have decreased on an annual basis . The sharpest drop occurred in the first quarter of 2007 , when there were 122,000 fewer apprehensions than in the first quarter of 2006 . Analyzing the rate of annual change on a quarterly basis paints a similar picture ( Figure 13 ) . In percentage terms , apprehensions grew solidly in every quarter of 2004 compared to the same quarters of 2003 , with increases averaging 25 % . The trend was slightly negative in the first ( -2 % ) and second ( -1 % ) quarters of 2005 before it picked up for the next three quarters , which averaged gains of 9 % . Since the second quarter of 2006 , apprehensions have been down by an average of 27 % in every quarter compared to the same quarter in the previous year .
The new category would be broader than the Arab ancestry data collected by the Census Bureau since 1980 . The Arab-American population is small but growing , and its exact size is disputed . The Census Bureau estimates there are 1.8 million Arab-Americans in the U.S. , up 51 % since 2000 . But the Arab American Institute Foundation estimates there are nearly 3.7 million Arab Americans living in the country . The Arab-American population is also diverse , with people claiming ties to 22 countries and various religious backgrounds .
Among Democratic voters , those with a college degree are more skeptical about their party 's chances in the Senate than are those without a college degree . As many college graduate Democratic voters expect the GOP to win a majority in the Senate as say they expect the Democratic Party to win the most seats ( both 49 % ) . By contrast , a majority of Democratic voters without a college degree ( 71 % ) expect the party to win a majority in the Senate this fall . There are no educational differences among Democrats in expectations for the House and there no significant differences among Republican voters by education in expectations for the House or Senate .
The survey finds that public concern about the budget deficit has increased since the end of last year . Currently , 28 % cite the federal budget deficit as the economic issue that most worries them , up from 24 % in March and 19 % in December . Despite this shift , however , the job situation remains the broader concern – 38 % say they worry most about jobs , up slightly from March ( 34 % ) though down from 47 % in December .
For the public , the events on Wall Street and news about the economy were clearly the dominant stories . Fully 47 % cited either Wall Street turmoil ( 27 % ) or reports on the economy ( 20 % ) as the story they followed most closely last week . While there was considerable interest in the campaign , far fewer people ( 20 % ) cited this as their top story of the week . The national news media divided its attention between the campaign and the economic crisis last week . According to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , 37 % of the national newshole was devoted to the turmoil on Wall Street and the government 's response while 31 % was focused on the campaign . The public 's news menu was extensive last week . Aside from the economy and the campaign , 42 % say they followed news about the impact of Hurricane Ike ; 21 % cite this as the story they followed most closely last week .
In addition to continuing support of U.S. military backing for their nation , Filipinos in recent years have softened their stance on their sometimes fraught relationship with China . Today , two-thirds say having a strong economic relationship with China is more important for ties between the two nations , while 28 % say being tough with China on territorial disputes is more vital . This represents a dramatic shift since this question was last asked in 2015 ; at that time , Filipinos were almost evenly divided between forging a strong economic relationship with China ( 43 % ) and being tough on territorial disputes ( 41 % ) .
Of course , today 's announcement could have a major impact on public opinion – it 's likely that FJP supporters will react negatively to the ultimatum – but it is clear that the military comes into this crisis with a stronger public image than many of the country 's key political players . For example , the March survey found mixed views regarding the nation 's largest political parties . About half ( 52 % ) had a favorable opinion of the FJP , while 44 % expressed a negative view . Meanwhile , ratings for both the NSF ( 45 % favorable , 52 % unfavorable ) and al-Nour ( 40 % favorable , 52 % unfavorable ) were on balance negative .
The vast majority of Americans ( 71 % ) continue to cite television as their source for most national and international news . This is little changed from recent years ; in December 2008 , 70 % said they got most news from television . More than four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they get most national and international news from the internet , which also is about the same as in December 2008 ( 40 % ) but much higher than in September 2007 ( 24 % ) . As was the case last December , somewhat fewer ( 33 % ) get most of their news from newspapers than from the internet . When it comes to local news , television also is where most of the public turns : 64 % say they get most of their news about issues and events in their area from television , compared with 41 % who say they get most local news from newspapers . And while 42 % of Americans rely on the internet for national and international news , fewer than half as many ( 17 % ) say the internet is their main source of local news . Americans are about equally likely to say radio is their main source for national and international news ( 21 % ) and local news ( 18 % ) .
More than two-in-ten Americans ( 23 % ) say they followed news about the events in Libya most closely , making this the public 's top story last week . Libya shared the top spot one week earlier with related news about the impact of Mid-East turmoil on domestic oil prices . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they followed news about Libya very closely , down slightly from one week earlier ( 38 % ) . Coverage of the situation in Libya accounted for 28 % of the newshole , according to PEJ . Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed news about the disputes in Wisconsin and other states between lawmakers and public employee unions most closely . The state budget conflicts accounted for 13 % of coverage . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed news about these stories very closely , down from 36 % the previous week .
When the 116th Congress convenes in January , at least 26 House members will be Millennials ( i.e. , born between 1981 and 1996 ) , up from only five at the start of the current Congress in January 2017 and six just before the Nov. 6 midterms . ( Pennsylvania Democrat Conor Lamb , 34 , won a special election this past spring for a seat that had been vacated by Tim Murphy , a Boomer ; Lamb and the five other serving Millennials all were re-elected . ) More than a fifth ( 20 ) of the 91 freshmen members-elect are Millennials , and 14 of those 20 are Democrats – including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York , at 29 the youngest woman ever elected to Congress . ( All figures in this post are as of Nov. 21 , when three seats had yet to be called . )
By one measure , U.S. income inequality is the highest it 's been since 1928 . In 1982 , the highest-earning 1 % of families received 10.8 % of all pretax income , while the bottom 90 % received 64.7 % , according to research by UC-Berkeley professor Emmanuel Saez . Three decades later , according to Saez ' preliminary estimates for 2012 , the top 1 % received 22.5 % of pretax income , while the bottom 90 % 's share had fallen to 49.6 % .
Most Favor U.S. Efforts to Stem Ebola 's Spread in West Africa By about four-to-one ( 77 % to 19 % ) , the public favors U.S. efforts to combat the Ebola virus in West Africa , including the dispatch of U.S. military troops and food and medical supplies to the region . Support for the U.S. actions to stem Ebola 's spread in West Africa span partisan and demographic categories . Majorities of Democrats ( 85 % ) , independents ( 76 % ) and Republicans ( 70 % ) support U.S. efforts to combat the disease in West Africa .
Different bargains have different value to Americans . A trade-off considered acceptable by 54 % of Americans was having surveillance cameras in the office in order to improve workplace security and help reduce thefts . On the other hand , a scenario involving the use of a `` smart thermostat '' in people 's homes that might save energy costs in return for insight about people 's comings and goings was deemed `` acceptable '' by only 27 % of adults , while 55 % saw it as `` not acceptable . ''
Source : For 2005 data , Pew Internet & American Life Project November-December 2005 Tracking Survey , n=1,931 adult internet users , 18 and older . Margin of error is plus or minus 2 percentage points for results based on internet users . For 2001 data , Pew Internet & American Life Project March 2001 Longitudinal Callback Survey , n=862 adult internet users , 18 and older . Margin of error is plus or minus 4 percentage points for results based on internet users .
A growing number of Americans want to see the U.S. less involved abroad after more than a decade of war in Iraq and Afghanistan . In a Pew Research Center survey last fall , 52 % of the public said the U.S. should `` mind its own business internationally and let other countries get along the best they can on their own '' — the first time since 1964 than more than half the public held that view . About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) disagreed . An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll last month produced similar results . This is all during a time when Americans believe U.S. influence in the world is declining . About half ( 53 % ) said the U.S. role as a world leader is less important and powerful than 10 years ago while only 17 % said it was more important . Seven-in-ten said the U.S. is less respected by other countries than in the past . About an equal number favored a shared leadership role in the world with far fewer saying the U.S. should be the single world power .
Most Americans say a college education is not worth the cost . In fact , 57 % say that college students receive only a fair ( 42 % ) or poor ( 15 % ) return for the money they and their families spend on their education . Just 5 % of the public says college students receive excellent value for their money , and 35 % say colleges provide good value . There is little difference in the evaluation of a college education between adults who did and did not attend college . College presidents , however , are far more generous in their evaluation of higher education . Fully three-fourths of college presidents say students receive an excellent ( 17 % ) or good ( 59 % ) value for the money they spend on an education . Still , despite the lack of enthusiasm for higher education among the public , most adults who graduated from college value their degree to some extent . Among college graduates , fully 86 % say that college has been a good investment for them personally ; just 6 % say it has not . Read more
So far , Obama has made recess appointments 32 times , according to a Feb. 2013 analysis by the Congressional Research Service . Among the last four presidents , Ronald Reagan made the most recess appointments ( 232 ) , followed by George W. Bush ( 171 ) , Bill Clinton ( 139 ) and George H.W . Bush ( 78 ) , who served only one term . These include not only ones made between sessions of Congress , but ones during recesses within a session .
The internet ranks high among sources of information and advice that people are seeking during hard times , especially when it comes to their personal finances and economic circumstances . At the same time , broadcast media outpace the internet as sources of news about national economics and broadcast sources still overshadow the internet among all Americans for information and advice related to their personal financial circumstances .
In a Pew Research Center survey conducted in the spring of 2012 , 58 % of teachers said they had their students write short essays , short responses , or opinion pieces at least once a week . A quarter of teachers only made these assignments monthly and another 10 % made them less often than that , with 7 % making no writing assignments at all . The next most frequent writing assignment , reported by 41 % of teachers , was to ask students to write in a journal at least once a week . But when it comes to lengthy writing assignments , science and math teachers lag behind . Fully 94 % of English teachers and 83 % of history/social studies teachers had their students write a research paper during the 2011 - 2012 academic year , compared with 68 % of science teachers and 36 % of math teachers . A similar pattern emerges for multimedia or mixed media assignments , with English ( 84 % ) and history/social studies ( 82 % ) teachers most likely and math teachers least likely ( 51 % ) to have given their students this type of assignment in the prior academic year . Science teachers ( 70 % ) fall in the middle .
As is the case in much of the world , relatively few people in Latin America express confidence in Trump 's leadership on the global stage . A median of 77 % in Latin America said in the 2017 survey that they have no confidence in the U.S. president to do the right thing regarding world affairs . In 2014 , just 42 % of people in the same seven countries said they had no confidence in then-U.S. President Barack Obama . Among 37 countries surveyed globally in 2017 , Trump received his lowest ratings on this question in Mexico , where 93 % said they have no confidence in the U.S. leader . His proposed wall on the U.S.-Mexico border was also particularly unpopular in the United States ' southern neighbor , where 94 % said they disapproved of the project . The border wall was similarly unpopular across the other six Latin American countries surveyed , with a regional median of 83 % saying they opposed it .
While it is fairly common for social media users to come across other people posting things about their love lives , only a minority of Americans who use these platforms ( 28 % ) say they have ever shared or discussed things about their relationship or dating life . About four-in-ten adults who are living with their partner ( 39 % ) and nearly half of those in a committed relationship ( 48 % ) but not living together say they have ever posted about their relationship on social media . Conversely , married and single adults are the least likely to post about their love lives ( 24 % and 26 % , respectively ) .
The latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted May 1 - 4 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , finds that more people say they learned something about the flu from local television news ( 69 % ) or cable news channels ( 63 % ) than from the nightly network news ( 53 % ) , the internet ( 49 % ) or newspapers ( 48 % ) . But the rankings change when people are asked which source has been most useful in learning about the global outbreak that started in Mexico . One quarter cite the internet , 19 % name the cable news networks and 17 % their local television news . About one-in-ten cite the nightly network newscasts or newspapers ( 9 % each ) .
The public is equally likely to say the Republican ( 43 % ) as Democratic Party ( 43 % ) can better manage the federal government . Views on this question are little changed in recent years .
The number of Mexican migrants apprehended at U.S. borders in fiscal 2015 dropped to the lowest levels in nearly 50 years , according to U.S. Border Patrol data . This change comes after a period in which net migration of Mexicans to the U.S. had fallen to lows not seen since the 1940s . This decline in apprehensions coincides with recently released estimates by Mexico 's top statistical agency , which show that the rate at which Mexicans migrated to the U.S. and other countries – including both legal and unauthorized immigrants – has held steady for the past five years , after a dramatic drop during the Great Recession . Apprehensions of Mexican migrants declined to near-historic lows last fiscal year , which ended Sept. 30 , 2015 , according to data released earlier in the year by the U.S. Border Patrol . ( U.S. border apprehension data are commonly used as an indicator of the flows of migrants entering the U.S. illegally , though they are only a partial measure . ) In fiscal 2015 , the Border Patrol made 188,122 apprehensions of Mexican migrants at U.S. borders , an 18 % decline from the previous year – and the lowest number of apprehensions on record since 1969 , when there were 159,376 apprehensions . The decline suggests unauthorized immigration flows from Mexico could be falling .
Few Hispanics report a strong sense of connectedness with other Hispanics , with only 18 % saying what happens to other Hispanics in the U.S. impacts them a lot and another 40 % saying it impacts them some . Immigrant Hispanics ( 62 % ) are as likely as those in the second generation ( 60 % ) to express a sense of linked fate with other Hispanics . This share decreases to 44 % among the third or higher generation .
Before the controversy , Clinton 's popularity was approaching an all-time high . In a survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Dec. 5 - 9 among 1,503 adults , 65 % had a favorable impression of Clinton while just 29 % had an unfavorable view . Throughout Clinton 's tenure as secretary of state she has enjoyed consistently high favorability ratings – at least 60 % or so . But her ratings during the previous 17 years were often quite mixed . Hillary Clinton first appeared on the national political scene in the spring of 1992 , as Bill Clinton was running for the Democratic presidential nomination . In March 1992 , when it was clear that her husband had effectively wrapped up the nomination , opinions about Hillary Clinton were mixed : 39 % of registered voters had a favorable opinion , 26 % viewed her unfavorably , while a significant minority ( 35 % ) did not express an opinion , according to a Gallup survey of registered voters .
Many people in Asia-Pacific countries have negative views of North Korea . Among the countries surveyed , the Japanese are most negative on North Korea : 94 % say they have an unfavorable view , including 78 % who say they have a very unfavorable opinion . In Australia , the U.S. and South Korea , roughly three-quarters or more say they have unfavorable views . Across the region , only Filipinos have a generally positive view of North Korea , with more than half ( 53 % ) holding a favorable view .
Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed news about Weiner 's resignation very closely . Still , more than half ( 52 % ) say they followed this Washington scandal not too ( 24 % ) or not at all closely ( 28 % ) . Partisans are about equally likely to say they followed this story very closely , as are men and women . The scandal accounted for 9 % of coverage . About a quarter ( 24 % ) say they very closely followed news about the debate in Washington over whether to raise the federal debt limit ; 8 % say this was their top story . Republicans are more likely to say they followed this news very closely than Democrats ( 30 % vs. 20 % ) . About a quarter of independents ( 24 % ) say they followed it as closely . The debate over the debt limit accounted for 2 % of coverage , according to PEJ . Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they very closely followed news about the continuing anti-government unrest and violence in a number of Middle Eastern countries ; 7 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about Middle East unrest made up 6 % of coverage . One-in-ten ( 10 % ) say they very closely followed news about the financial crisis and violent protests in Greece ; 3 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about Greece 's financial situation accounted for 4 % of the coverage analyzed by PEJ .
Despite this disconnect , views have become more positive in Germany over the past year : The share of Germans who say the relationship between the United States and Germany is good has risen from 24 % in 2018 to 34 % this year . But while Germans are now more positive about the relationship than in 2018 , their outlook is still more negative than in 2017 .
Along with asking about usage of mobile messaging apps , the survey also tracked usage of a variety of social media platforms and online forums . Among the key findings : The analysis in this report is based on telephone interviews conducted March 17 , 2015 through April 12 , 2015 among a national sample of 1,907 adults , 18 years of age or older , living in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia . 672 respondents were interviewed on a landline telephone , and 1,235 were interviewed on a cell phone , including 730 who had no landline telephone . Of the full sample , 1,612 are internet users . The margin of sampling error for results based on the full sample is plus or minus 2.6 percentage points . Because many items were based on half samples , results based on internet users in this report have a margin of sampling error of either plus or minus 3.9 percentage points or plus or minus 4.0 percentage points . Results based on smartphone owners have a margin of error of plus or minus 4.6 percentage points . See the Methods section at the end of this report for more details .
In every fiscal year since 2004 , the U.S. has issued more green cards to immigrants living in the country on another visa who adjust their legal status than to new arrivals . ( In fiscal 2015 , the most recent full year available , there were 542,315 in the former category and 508,716 in the latter . ) Since 2004 , a total of 7.4 million people who adjusted their status and 5.5 million new arrivals have received lawful permanent residency in the form of a green card . The size of the difference between the two groups has diminished , though , because the number of visas granted to immigrants already in the U.S. has declined in the past decade while the number granted to new arrivals have risen slightly . In the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 , from Oct. 1 to March 30 , new arrivals ( 289,603 ) slightly outnumbered those who adjusted their status ( 270,547 ) . The Trump administration has announced immigration restrictions that could continue to reduce the number of people who receive green cards while they are in the U.S. on temporary visas .
The U.S. Census Bureau uses this approach , as does Pew Research Center and most other research organizations that conduct public opinion surveys . By this way of counting , the Census Bureau estimates there were roughly 60.6 million Hispanics in the United States as of July 1 , 2019 , making up 18 % of the total national population .
In general , online dating services use data to improve customer experience , namely to present users with better matches . To get a sense of how people rate their knowledge of the digital matchmaking process , the Center asked online dating users how well they feel they understand why online dating services present certain people as potential matches . The majority of online dating users ( 58 % ) report they understand the process either very or somewhat well . Among online daters who characterize their previous experiences with dating sites and apps as very or somewhat positive , nearly seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) report understanding the process very or somewhat well , compared with 44 % of those who have had very or somewhat negative experiences with online dating . A similar pattern exists for those who have met their current partners through online dating .
Overall , a majority ( 53 % ) says that jobs are difficult to find in their community while only about a third ( 34 % ) says there are plenty of jobs available . The percentage saying that jobs are difficult to find locally has increased modestly since February 2007 ( 48 % ) . In October 2003 , 66 % said that jobs were difficult to find , the highest percentage expressing that view since the start of the Bush administration .
Irish voters recently approved a measure that modifies the country 's constitution and opens the door to legal abortion in a broader array of circumstances – perhaps more in line with the rest of Western Europe . The vote ( with 66 % approving the referendum ) underscores the findings in a new Pew Research Center report , which shows that people in Ireland – like those in 14 other Western European countries – believe abortion should be legal in all or most cases .
The last two monthly jobs reports were , as they say , nothing to write home about . U.S. payrolls expanded by just 113,000 jobs in January , far weaker than economists had predicted , after gaining just 75,000 jobs in December . The unemployment rate edged lower to 6.6 % , the lowest level since October 2008 but still well above pre-Great Recession levels . And average weekly earnings , $ 832.82 , were just 1.9 % higher above their level a year earlier ; annual wage growth ( measured December-to-December ) has been below 3 % for the past six years . In a Pew Research survey last month , just 16 % of people rated economic conditions as `` excellent '' or `` good , '' while 45 % rated them `` only fair '' and 39 % `` poor . '' And according to a new report out today , 33 % of people said they 're hearing mostly bad news about the economy , compared with 61 % saying the news is mixed and only 5 % saying it 's mostly good .
Consistent with the view that a vaccine may be approved before its safety and effectiveness are fully understood , Americans overwhelmingly say their greater concern is that the approval process will move too fast , rather than too slowly . Nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) say their greater concern is that the vaccine approval process will move too fast , without fully establishing that it is safe and effective . Just 20 % say they are more concerned the approval process will move too slowly , causing unnecessary delays in access to a vaccine . While Republicans and Democrats have differed over many aspects of the coronavirus outbreak – including the threat it presents to public health and how quickly to lift restrictions on public activity – majorities of both groups say their greater concern about the vaccine approval process is that it will move too fast , rather than too slowly . About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 69 % ) are more concerned about the approval process moving too fast , and an even larger majority of Democrats ( 86 % ) share this view .
Roughly four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) say they would increase federal spending for anti-terrorism defenses in the U.S. , about the same as in 2017 . But in 2013 , only about a third ( 32 % ) favored increased spending for anti-terrorism defense . In early 2002 , a few months after the 9/11 terrorist attacks , a majority ( 63 % ) supported increased spending for terrorism defenses . The share of Americans who favor increased spending on military defense , which rose in 2017 , has slipped 6 percentage points since then ( from 46 % to 40 % ) . Most of the decline has come among Republicans ; 56 % favor higher defense spending today , compared with 71 % who did so two years ago . However , the share of Republicans who support cutting defense spending remains low ( 10 % ) .
Those who face the greatest financial insecurity are the most reliant on government benefits ; more than half of the least secure group reports receiving at least one type of means-tested government benefit . They also are more likely than the most financially secure to say that `` the government should do more to help needy Americans , even if it means going deeper into debt . '' Among the least financially secure , 60 % express this view ; no more than half in any other group ( including just 34 % of the most financially secure ) say the government should do more to assist the needy if it means adding to the debt . Similarly , the least secure are far more likely than the most secure to say that `` poor people have hard lives because government benefits do n't go far enough to help them live decently . ''
There is widespread pessimism in rich countries , with many saying that today 's young people will do worse economically than the generation that came before . Across the 10 economically advanced nations surveyed , a median of 65 % believe that when children in their country grow up , they will be financially worse off than their parents . In the U.S. , 65 % say American children will be worse off , while just 30 % think they will do better financially than their parents . A major reason why emerging and developing nations are more optimistic is that their economies have performed better in recent years . Overall , there is a strong relationship between economic growth and optimism for the next generation . People in countries that have had strong growth since 2008 – such as China , Vietnam and Ghana – are much more likely to say today 's children will be better off than their parents . In nations hit hard by the Great Recession – such as Greece , Spain and Italy – there is much less optimism .
While overall ratings for China among people around the world are mostly positive , that is not the case on the issue of individual liberty . A global median of 45 % say the Chinese government does not respect the personal freedoms of its people , while only 34 % say that it does . Citizens in the European Union and North America are most likely to hold this negative view . In Asia , publics are very divided on this issue , as are those in the Middle East . People in Africa are the most positive about China 's human rights record .
Drop-off voters reported less outreach from political candidates and campaigns than did consistent voters . Only about half of drop-off voters ( 51 % ) said they had ever been personally contacted to vote for a candidate , compared with 70 % of consistent voters .
News about the dangers of an antibiotic-resistant staph infection ( MRSA ) caught the public 's attention last week . More than a quarter of Americans paid very close attention to this story and 18 % listed it as the single news story they followed more closely than any other — placing it at the top of the weekly news interest index .
The demographic profile of veterans is also expected to change in the coming decades , reflecting the shifting demographic profile of the military in general . Between 2013 and 2043 , the share of all veterans who are women will almost double , from 9 % up to 17 % , according to VA projections . At the same time , the share ages 50 to 69 is expected to shrink from 42 % to 34 % , while the share ages 70 or older is expected to rise from 30 % to 36 % . Mirroring trends in the overall U.S. population , the veteran population is predicted to become more racially and ethnically diverse , as well . Between 2013 and 2043 , the share of non-Hispanic white veterans is projected to fall from 78 % to 64 % , while the share of Hispanic vets will likely double , from 7 % to 14 % .
Among Republicans and Republican leaners with a very unfavorable view of the Democratic Party in the current survey , 65 % are likely voters , compared with only 49 % among Democrats with a very unfavorable view of the Republican Party . Those who are less hostile to the opposite party are considerably less likely to vote . Among Republicans , 40 % of those with a mostly unfavorable view of Democrats are likely to vote , and only 23 % of those with positive views ( or who offer no opinion ) of the Democratic Party are likely to vote . On the other side , 33 % of Democrats with a mostly unfavorable view of the Republican Party are forecasted to turn out , as are 19 % of those with positive views of ( or no opinion about ) the GOP .
Majorities of Muslims surveyed by Pew say that `` Western style democracy '' can work in their own country , with Indonesia a notable exception . Few Muslims say that democracy is `` a Western way of doing things that would not work here . '' The latter view is expressed by a majority of Indonesians ( 53 % ) , and sizable minorities in Turkey and the Palestinian Authority both at 37 % .
However , it could be a half-century ( or longer ) before Hispanics become a full majority in California , if that demographic milestone is reached at all , according to scaled-back state population projections published by the state Finance Department . Under projections published in 2007 , the state 's Hispanic population was expected to reach 31 million in 2050 , or 52.1 % of all Californians . But according to updated projections released late last year , Hispanics are now expected to number 23.7 million in 2050 , or 47.6 % of all Californians . That pushes the prospect of a Hispanic demographic majority further into the future – perhaps to sometime after 2060 . The 2014 population projections also included an estimate for 2060 that indicates that Hispanics may not reach a majority by that year , when they are expected to number 25.5 million , or 49.3 % of California 's population .
In Orthodox-majority countries , many people look to Russian leadership . Orthodox Christians in Central and Eastern Europe – and not just Russian Orthodox Christians – are more likely than others to favor Russian leadership in the region . For example , more people in Orthodox-majority countries than in Catholic-majority countries look to Russia as a counterbalance to Western influence . In addition , those in Orthodox-majority countries tend to take the position that Russia should protect ethnic Russians outside of Russia ; about three-quarters of Romanians ( 74 % ) and seven-in-ten Moldovans ( 70 % ) , for example , say Russia has this responsibility .
However , Hispanic registered voters appear to be less motivated than other voters to go to the polls . Just one-third ( 32 % ) of all Latino registered voters say they have given this year 's election `` quite a lot '' of thought . In contrast , half ( 50 % ) of all registered voters say the same ( Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , 2010b ) . And when it comes to their intent to vote , half ( 51 % ) of Latino registered voters say they are absolutely certain they will vote in this year 's midterm election , while seven-in-ten ( 70 % ) of all registered voters say the same ( Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , 2010a ) .
Of those internet users reporting a dollar amount for purchasing online content , the typical user spent $ 10 per monthly . However , there was considerable variance , with Figure 3 showing the percentages for five monthly spend categories .
In the Pew Research survey , both private and public college graduates were likely to say that their education was worth what they and their family paid for it . Roughly equal shares of 83 % among private school graduates and 86 % among public school graduates said they had already seen a payoff . Small shares of each ( 5 % of private graduates and 7 % of public graduates ) said they expect to see their educations pay off in the future . The remainder said it will not pay off , or they are not sure .
These opinions are little changed from last fall . But four years ago , just 57 % saw solid evidence of global warming and 36 % said it was mostly caused by human activity .
The survey finds that , as has been the case since 2002 , the Republican Party has a sizable advantage over the Democrats on terrorism : 46 % of the public says the Republican Party can do better in dealing with the terrorist threat at home , compared with 34 % who favor the Democrats . Republicans hold a narrower , six-point edge ( 43 % to 37 % ) as the party better able to reflect people 's views about gun control . The GOP had an even wider lead on this issue in July ( 48 % to 36 % ) . Neither party has a significant advantage on the economy or immigration , while the Democratic Party holds wide leads over the GOP on both climate change ( 46 % to 32 % ) and the environment ( 53 % to 30 % ) .
A majority of Americans ( 61 % ) say the federal government is mostly ( 40 % ) or entirely ( 21 % ) responsible in making sure there are enough COVID-19 tests available to the public . About four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say this responsibility at least mostly falls on the state government . Younger adults are more likely than those who are older to say the federal government should take the lead in making testing for COVID-19 widely available . Seven-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 say the federal government should be responsible for making COVID-19 testing available , the highest share in any age group . Republicans are ideologically divided in views of whether the states or federal government should be responsible for making sure there are enough COVID-19 tests . Nearly two-thirds of conservative Republicans ( 65 % ) say this is the responsibility of a state government ; a majority of moderate and liberal Republicans ( 55 % ) say it is the federal government 's responsibility . Among Democrats , a larger majority of liberals ( 85 % ) than conservatives and moderates ( 73 % ) say the responsibility for ensuring an adequate supply of COVID-19 tests lies with the federal government .
Roughly seven-in-ten U.S. teens ( 72 % ) say they use the site . Surpassed only by YouTube , Instagram ranks as the second most popular platform among Americans in this age group , according to a survey conducted in March and April of 2018 . Separately , 15 % of teens say Instagram is the platform they use `` most often . '' That 's lower than the shares who say the same about Snapchat ( 35 % ) and YouTube ( 32 % ) .
Researchers are , of course , interested in the extent to which nonresponse bias is getting worse over time . Comparing current levels to those measured roughly four years ago , we find that , on average , the accuracy of telephone survey data is at least as high as it was in 2012 . On 13 demographic , lifestyle and health questions11that have high response rate benchmark survey data , the average ( absolute ) difference between the Center telephone estimates and the benchmark survey estimates was 2.7 percentage points in 2016 , compared with 2.8 points in 2012 . In general , accuracy as measured by these benchmarks was lower among certain demographic groups such as young adults and minorities . But there is no indication that the biases within groups got worse over time . Most major subgroups – defined by age , gender , race or education – saw the accuracy of their estimates from phone surveys either stay level or slightly improve . For example , across the 13 lifestyle , health and demographic questions with high response rate comparisons , the average difference between the Hispanic adult estimate from Pew Research Center phone surveys and the same Hispanic estimate from the benchmark survey was 5.5 percentage points in 2016 as compared with 6.7 in 2012 . The average change in accuracy from 2012 to 2016 was similar for non-Hispanic white . For blacks , however , their phone survey estimates differed from benchmark survey estimates by an average of 5.1 percentage points in 2016 versus 4.2 points in 2012 .
The six-party talks on North Korea – involving the United States , South Korea , North Korea , China , Japan and Russia – slated to begin Aug. 27 in Beijing reflect global public concern that the regime in Pyongyang poses a serious threat to Asian stability . But U.S. efforts to defuse the North Korean crisis take place against a backdrop of rising anti-Americanism in South Korea and occur at a time when fewer South Koreans show concern about the threat posed by their northern neighbor than do Americans , Australians and many Europeans .
A total of 2,466 refugees from six countries under new travel restrictions – Iran , Libya , Somalia , Sudan , Syria and Yemen – have resettled in the United States since Donald Trump became president , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. State Department data . The number of refugees from the six travel-restricted countries represents 32 % of all refugees who have entered the U.S. since Trump took office . During the first full week of Trump 's presidency ( Jan. 21 - 27 ) , 687 refugees from the six restricted countries entered the U.S. , accounting for 34 % of all refugee admissions that week . The following week , Jan. 28 to Feb. 3 , refugee admissions from the six restricted countries all but stopped after Trump 's original executive order on restrictions took effect . They then resumed shortly after a federal judge in Washington state suspended key parts of Trump 's initial order on Feb. 3 and lifted the travel restrictions , a decision that was upheld by a federal appeals court . ( For a look at weekly refugee admissions after the initial executive order , see our earlier analysis . )
One area where there were significant differences was survey items relating to technology . The nine out of 406 survey items that have a difference of at least 5 percentage points between the full sample and the Web sample are related to internet or technology use . There is a 13-point difference in daily internet use between the Web-only sample ( 82 % ) and of the total sample ( 69 % ) . About eight-in-ten of Americans in the Web-only sample said they had sent email or texts to friends or family the day before , compared with about seven-in-ten in the total sample . Fully 90 % in the Web-only sample own a desktop or laptop , compared with 80 % in the total sample .
In the first two months of 2011 , the public saw more positive signs in economic news . In January , nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) said they were hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , up from 55 % in December . Now perceptions are comparable to the latter half of 2010 .
Many Americans say NATO does too little to solve global problems . In an October 2017 Pew Research Center survey , almost half of Americans ( 48 % ) said NATO does not do enough to help solve world problems . About a third ( 31 % ) said NATO does the right amount , while just 5 % said the alliance does too much to solve the world 's problems .
With efforts to address the earthquake and tsunami damage at the Fukushima Daiichi plant still ongoing , a majority of Japanese ( 59 % ) are worried that they or some in their family may have been exposed to radiation from the plant . That includes roughly three-in-ten ( 31 % ) who say they are very worried about this possibility .
Layoffs have pummeled U.S. newspapers in recent years . Roughly a quarter of U.S. newspapers with an average Sunday circulation of 50,000 or more ( 27 % ) experienced layoffs in 2018 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of news articles that cited staff layoffs at these outlets . The layoffs came on top of the roughly one-third ( 32 % ) of papers in the same circulation range that experienced layoffs in 2017 . Some papers experienced more than one round of layoffs within the same year , particularly in 2018 . Among the daily newspapers that had layoffs in 2018 , about a third ( 31 % ) went through more than one round . In 2017 , by comparison , 17 % of newspapers that experienced layoffs endured multiple rounds .
Whites also are nearly three times as likely as blacks to express at least a fair amount of confidence in the investigations into the shooting . About half of whites ( 52 % ) say they have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in the investigations , compared with just 18 % of blacks . Roughly three-quarters of blacks ( 76 % ) have little or no confidence in the investigations , with 45 % saying they have no confidence at all .
Nearly three-quarters in Russia ( 73 % ) say that their economy is in bad shape . Only around a quarter ( 24 % ) say the Russian economy is doing well . Over the past year , the fall in the price of oil and Western sanctions have led to a 20 percentage point drop in positive economic sentiment , despite recent signs that the economic downturn might prove less severe than anticipated .
White police officers and their black colleagues have starkly different views on fundamental questions regarding the situation of blacks in American society , the 2016 survey found . For example , nearly all white officers ( 92 % ) – but only 29 % of their black colleagues – said the U.S. had made the changes needed to assure equal rights for blacks .
India is also one of the world 's top destinations for international migrants . As of 2015 , about 5.2 million immigrants live in India , making it the 12th-largest immigrant population in the world . The overwhelming majority of India 's immigrants are from neighboring countries such as Bangladesh ( 3.2 million ) , Pakistan ( 1.1 million ) , Nepal ( 540,000 ) and Sri Lanka ( 160,000 ) . India receives more remittances from migrants than any other country . About $ 69 billion was sent by Indian migrants to family and friends in India in 2015 , amounting to roughly 3 % of the country 's gross domestic product , according to the World Bank estimates . Most of the money comes from Indians living in Persian Gulf countries as well as the U.S. , the UK and Canada . India has been the world 's top recipient of migrant remittances since 2008 , when it overtook China on this measure .
In the digital news environment , the role of friends and family is prominent – and for some it 's an echo chamber . Among online news consumers , conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats are more likely than more moderate members of each party to say the news they get from family and friends online represents just one side . And about half ( 51 % ) of conservative Republicans who said they see mostly one-sided news say this is OK – a larger share than among all other political groups , including liberal Democrats ( 34 % ) .
Roughly six-in-ten men who have online dated in the past five years ( 57 % ) say they feel as if they did not get enough messages , while just 24 % of women say the same . Meanwhile , women who have online dated in this time period are five times as likely as men to think they were sent too many messages ( 30 % vs. 6 % ) .
The current Mexican share of all foreign born living in the U.S.—32 % —is the highest concentration of immigrants to the U.S. from a single country since the late 19th century . But it is not unprecedented . Irish immigrants represented a third or more of the immigrant population from 1850 to 1870 . Germans were 26 % to 30 % of the foreign-born population from 1850 to 1900 .
Nonetheless , most Africans ( a median of 68 % ) say their countries need more foreign aid . More than eight-in-ten hold this opinion in Senegal , Burkina Faso and Uganda . South Africa , which has the highest per capita income among the nations surveyed , is an outlier on this question – just 26 % of South Africans think their country needs more foreign aid .
The percentage of the public that thinks that Congress will pass health care legislation within the next year stands at 56 % , effectively matching the 57 % recorded in mid-October just after the Senate Finance Committee approved its version of the measure . The current level is not up significantly from 52 % the previous week , but the number has been trending higher since early November , when it was 47 % . Close to four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they do not think health care legislation will pass , a level not much changed in recent weeks . As they have in recent weeks , a greater percentage of Democrats ( 64 % ) than Republicans ( 48 % ) or independents ( 55 % ) says they expect legislation to pass .
Overall , both Canadians and Mexicans use mostly negative or neutral words to describe the U.S. , and only a small portion mention a positive word . Canadians are more likely than Mexicans to use a negative word to describe the U.S. ( 50 % vs. 31 % ) . Except for `` powerful , '' `` power , '' `` good '' and `` confused , '' the other words mentioned at least 10 times by Canadians have a negative connotation , such as `` disappointing , '' `` sad '' and `` disorganized . ''
Still , Democrats in particular are somewhat more likely today than they were last year to say the term `` Democrat '' describes them very well : 39 % say this today , compared with 33 % in March 2016 . Another 51 % of Democrats say the term describes them fairly well . Even fewer Republicans ( 31 % ) say the term `` Republican '' applies very well to them ; most Republicans ( 58 % ) say it describes them fairly well . The share of Republicans who say they are described well by the term is largely unchanged from last year .
There are other challenges . For example , 28 % of adults have used a smartphone as part of their employment search , and half of those have filled out a job application using a smartphone . But mobile job seekers often encounter difficulties like accessing and reading content , as well as trouble submitting files and documents .
Overall , women are more likely to name a family member ( including other family members , such as siblings ) as one of the three people they talk with most about politics ( 85 % , vs. 76 % of men ) . On the other hand , men are more likely to name non-family members ( 79 % , vs. 70 % of women ) , a difference that holds true across all age groups . For example , young men ages 18 - 29 are far more likely than their female counterparts to think of one of their friends as a main discussion partner ( 72 % vs. 58 % ) .
Around eight-in-ten Republican registered voters ( 79 % ) are Christians , compared with about half ( 52 % ) of Democratic voters . In turn , Democratic voters are much more likely than GOP voters to identify as religiously unaffiliated ( 38 % vs. 15 % ) .
Inflation – Rising prices are seen as a very big problem by 59 % in China , according to a spring 2013 Pew Research Center survey . When asked which is the issue most important for the government to address first , 53 % of the Chinese public said inflation , while 26 % named inequality and only 11 % cited unemployment . Inflation shot up to 3.1 % in September , making it a pressing issue for China 's Communist party elite . Corruption – Just over half of Chinese ( 53 % ) said that corrupt officials were a very big problem , according to the spring 2013 survey . The recent conviction of Bo Xilai and accounts of personal enrichment among former Communist leaders from China 's state-owned enterprises ( SOEs ) make the issue even more salient . Many observers believe SOE reform will be one of the top goals of this weekend 's leadership meeting . It is estimated that 35 % of business activity and 43 % of profits in China result from SOEs . Inequality – Just over half in 2013 ( 52 % ) said that the gap between the rich and the poor was a large concern , according to the spring survey . Earlier this year , Chinese officials released an updated Gini coefficient of .474 ( a measurement of inequality where 0 represents perfect equality and 1 equals maximum income inequality ) , down from a peak of .491 in 2008 . Many were skeptical of the accuracy of this rating , but Pew Research polling shows the number concerned about inequality has fallen since 2008 , when 72 % said it was a very big problem . Environmental issues – An increasing number of Chinese are concerned about environmental issues , as suffocating air pollution makes international headlines . In the spring 2013 survey , 47 % in China said air pollution was a very big problem and 40 % describe water pollution as a big concern .
As the number of asylum seekers from Central America and elsewhere has surged at the U.S.-Mexico border , Hispanics are broadly critical of the federal government 's response . Around six-in-ten Hispanics ( 63 % ) say the U.S. government has done a somewhat ( 36 % ) or very bad ( 26 % ) job at dealing with the increased number of people seeking asylum at the nation 's southern border . But views on this question break sharply along party lines . Three-in-four Democrats ( 75 % ) say the U.S. government has done a bad job , while about half of Republicans ( 55 % ) say the government has done a good job .
The need for family and medical leave – whether paid or unpaid – is felt broadly across the U.S . Roughly six-in-ten Americans ( 62 % ) say they have taken or are very likely to take time off from work for family or medical reasons at some point . Among adults who were employed in the past two years , 27 % say they have taken parental , family or medical leave during this period . In addition , 16 % of those who were employed in the past two years say they needed or wanted to take these types of leave during this period but were unable to do so . Blacks and Hispanics , those without a bachelor 's degree and those with annual household incomes under $ 30,000 are more likely than whites and those with more education or higher incomes to say they were n't able to take leave when they needed or wanted to . Many leave takers – including 56 % of those who took parental leave – say they took less time off than they needed or wanted to . Financial concerns top the list of reasons why some leave takers returned to work more quickly than they would have liked to or did n't take time off at all . About seven-in-ten leave takers ( 69 % ) who took less time off than they needed or wanted to say they could n't afford to lose more wages or salary . About half ( 47 % ) say they thought they might lose their job – a concern more widely felt among lower-income workers .
Hispanics have voted in record numbers in recent years , but their turnout rate continues to lag behind whites and blacks , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census data . Hispanics today make up 11.3 % of all eligible voters . But voter turnout among Hispanics has not kept pace with the growing number of eligible voters in recent national elections . In 2010 , Hispanics cast a record 6.6 million ballots out of 21.3 million eligible voters , a turnout rate of 31.2 % . But that was still far below the turnout among black voters ( 44 % ) and white voters ( 48.6 % ) .
Nearly a third of the public followed news about the campaign very closely and four-in-ten listed the election as the story they were following more closely than any other . On Tuesday night , 38 % of Americans tracked results of the New Hampshire primary as they were being reported . This is somewhat higher than the percentage that followed the results of the Iowa caucuses the previous week ( 30 % ) . As was the case with Iowa , the vast majority of those who followed the New Hampshire primary results as they were coming in tracked them on television . Republicans , Democrats and Independents followed the New Hampshire results in roughly equal proportions . Interest in news about the condition of the U.S. economy spiked amid widespread speculation about a possible recession . Fully 36 % of the public followed news about the economy very closely , up from 27 % in November . Interest in news about the economy has n't reached this level in over two years . Equal proportions of Republicans and Democrats ( 35 % ) followed economic news very closely last week . Next to the presidential campaign , the economy was cited most often as the news story Americans were following more closely than any other ( 14 % ) . The national news media devoted 3 % of its overall coverage to economic stories . Several international stories were among last week 's top news interest stories . A quarter of the public paid very close attention to the current situation in Iraq , 11 % listed this as their most closely followed story . Interest in the Iraq war has remained relatively stable over the past two months . News about an encounter between U.S. naval ships and several Iranian patrol boats in the Persian Gulf drew the very close attention of 25 % of the public ( 6 % listed this as their most closely followed story ) . Republicans were particularly interested in this story with 29 % following very closely vs. 20 % of Democrats .
At least eight-in-ten in Spain ( 87 % ) , Britain ( 85 % ) , the U.S. ( 85 % ) , France ( 80 % ) and Germany ( 80 % ) disagree that in tough economic times , men should have more right to a job than women . Majorities in Mexico ( 69 % ) , Brazil ( 63 % ) , Argentina ( 56 % ) , Kenya ( 53 % ) and Poland ( 51 % ) also reject this notion . In contrast , the view that men should have more of a right to a job than women during tough economic times is prevalent in nine of the countries surveyed . At least seven-in-ten in India ( 84 % ) , Pakistan ( 82 % ) , Nigeria ( 77 % ) , Egypt ( 75 % ) , Indonesia ( 74 % ) and China ( 73 % ) subscribe to this idea . About two-thirds in the predominantly Muslim countries of Jordan ( 68 % ) and Turkey ( 67 % ) as well as 60 % in South Korea also say that men are more entitled to a job than women when jobs are scarce .
We found that a big majority of Americans ( 87 % ) say they know someone who is Catholic – perhaps not surprising , given that as of 2012 , 22 % of U.S. adults were Catholic . Somewhat fewer Americans ( 70 % ) say they know an evangelical Christian , even though nearly a third of U.S. adults ( 32 % ) describe themselves as born-again or evangelical Christians . The percentage of Americans who know members of smaller religious groups varies widely , with little apparent relation to the actual size of the group . For example , Muslims , Buddhists and Hindus each comprise about 1 % or less of the U.S. population , but many more Americans say they know a Muslim ( 38 % ) than a Buddhist ( 23 % ) or a Hindu ( 22 % ) .
Scientists are held in high esteem by most Americans , with public confidence in scientists outpacing that for other prominent groups , but Black adults are significantly less likely than White adults to share that view . While views of scientists generally tilt positive , there 's a 14-point gap between the shares of White and Black adults who say they have a great deal of confidence in scientists ( 41 % vs. 27 % ) . And while most adults in both groups have at least a fair amount of confidence in scientists , Black adults are about twice as likely as White adults to say they have not too much or no confidence in scientists to act in the public interest ( 21 % vs. 11 % ) . U.S. Hispanics rate scientists about the same as White adults do , expressing more confidence in them than Black adults do .
In our new survey examining the public 's attitudes about government , just 25 % say that , `` on the issues that matter , '' their side has been winning more often than it has been losing . More than twice as many ( 64 % ) say their side loses more often than it wins .
A declining share of Canadians identify as Christians , while an increasing share say they have no religion – similar to trends in the United States and Western Europe . Our most recent survey in Canada , conducted in 2018 , found that a slim majority of Canadian adults ( 55 % ) say they are Christian , including 29 % who are Catholic and 18 % who are Protestant . About three-in-ten Canadians say they are either atheist ( 8 % ) , agnostic ( 5 % ) or `` nothing in particular '' ( 16 % ) . Canadian census data indicate that the share of Canadians in this `` religiously unaffiliated '' category rose from 4 % in 1971 to 24 % in 2011 , although it is lowest in Quebec . In addition , a rising share of Canadians identify with other faiths , including Islam , Hinduism , Sikhism , Judaism and Buddhism , due in large part to immigration . The 2018 Pew Research Center survey found that these five groups together make up 8 % of Canadian adults .
Overall , 70 % of Americans say that mothers today have a more difficult job than mothers did 20 or 30 years ago . Fewer than one-in-five ( 17 % ) say the job of motherhood is about the same as it was then , while 11 % say it is easier today .
The death of singer Whitney Houston , the presidential campaign and the state of the economy topped the public 's news interest last week . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say Houston 's sudden death at 48 was their top story of the week ; 18 % say they followed news about candidates for the presidential election most closely , while 15 % say their top story was news about the economy , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Feb. 16 - 20 among 1,006 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Those same stories led coverage . News about the campaign made up 16 % of the newshole , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . News about the economy accounted for 12 % ; an additional 4 % of coverage focused on a related story – the payroll tax extension approved by Congress . News about Houston 's death made up 10 % of the newshole .
A plurality of the decision 's supporters ( 36 % ) say the flag is representative of racism , slavery or hatred , while 20 % say that that the flag is offensive and divisive . Some supporters of the decision to take down the flag view the symbol of the Confederacy as inappropriate to fly on statehouse grounds : 16 % say that the symbol of the Confederacy , which lost the Civil War , should not fly , while 8 % say the flag does not belong on government property . About one-in-ten ( 12 % ) supporters cite a desire for society to move forward as their reason why they support the flag 's removal . Smaller shares specifically cite the killing of nine African Americans in Charleston in June ( 5 % ) , or say they support the decision because it is South Carolina 's to make ( 4 % ) .
Obama is very popular in Africa ( and so was George W. Bush ) . Obama 's ratings in sub-Saharan Africa are overwhelmingly positive . This year , we surveyed nine countries in the region , and big majorities in each nation express confidence in the American leader . Of course , his predecessor was also largely popular in the region ; the rise in anti-Americanism that occurred in many parts of the world during the Bush era was largely absent in Africa .
Democrats and Republicans hold sharply different views on the federal government 's role in helping undocumented immigrants affected by the coronavirus . The vast majority ( 85 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the federal government has a responsibility to provide medical care to undocumented immigrants , compared with about half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 47 % ) . Meanwhile , more than half ( 56 % ) of Democrats say the U.S. government has a responsibility to provide economic help to undocumented immigrants who have lost a job , compared with only 14 % of Republicans . Democrats and Republicans have long held starkly different views on issues related to undocumented immigrants and asylum seekers .
The 2016 presidential election coincided with substantial shifts in the ways that members of Congress communicated with their constituents online . A new Pew Research Center analysis examines congressional Facebook posts from Jan. 1 , 2015 , through Dec. 31 , 2017 , a three-year timespan that includes the entire 114th session of Congress , the 2016 primary and general elections , the first year of the 115th Congress , and Republican President Donald Trump 's first year in office . The analysis finds that Democrats expressed political opposition nearly five times as much under Trump as they did during the last two years of Barack Obama 's presidency . Much of this opposition was directed at President Trump , though Democrats also increasingly opposed Republican members of Congress .
Among other news stories last week , 22 % say they followed George Zimmerman 's trial for the shooting death of Trayvon Martin very closely , while similar shares tracked Senate passage of an immigration reform bill ( 21 % very closely ) and efforts to apprehend Edward Snowden , the contractor who leaked government surveillance secrets ( 20 % very closely ) . More blacks than whites also paid very close attention to news about the Supreme Court 's decision on the Voting Rights Act ( 36 % of blacks , 15 % of whites ) and reports about TV food personality Paula Deen admitting that she used racially insensitive language ( 27 % of blacks , 16 % of whites ) .
This would n't be the first time that colleges and universities have experienced a `` college admissions bubble . '' The last enrollment peak happened in 2009 , when the children of Baby Boomers reached college age ( and 18 years after 1991 's 4.1 million births ) . In addition , the Great Recession encouraged many young adults to ride out the difficult job market by continuing their education . Since 2009 , the number of first-time , full-time freshmen has come down somewhat ( from 2.5 million to 2.4 million in 2013 ) .
Foreign policy , the budget deficit and immigration are among the most dominant issues for Republican voters ; each is named by 70 % or more as `` very important '' to their vote in the fall . But only about half of Democratic voters say each of these issues are very important to their vote decisions .
Today , 42 % say they approve of the way Barack Obama is handling his job as president , while 51 % disapprove . These ratings are little changed over the past year .
Americans are closely divided over the health benefits of organic produce . Some 45 % of U.S. adults say organic fruits and vegetables are better for you than conventionally grown produce , compared with 51 % who say that organic produce is neither better nor worse , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted earlier this year . The share of U.S. adults who say that organic produce is better for one 's health declined by 10 percentage points since a 2016 survey . However , younger people remain more likely than their older counterparts to say organics are healthier than conventionally grown food . Some 54 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 47 % of those ages 30 to 49 believe organic fruits and vegetables are generally better for one 's health , compared with 39 % of those 65 and older who say the same . As in the 2016 survey , there are no differences among men and women on views of the healthfulness of organic foods . About four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 39 % ) estimate that most ( 7 % ) or some ( 32 % ) of the food they eat is organic . A majority of this group ( 68 % ) believes that organic fruits and vegetables are better for health than conventionally grown options . By comparison , 32 % of those who report eating no organic foods or not too much believe that organic produce is better for one 's health .
The public paid very close attention to the inauguration of Barack Obama as president last week , while keeping a close eye on the nation 's troubled economy . More than four-in-ten ( 42 % ) Americans say the inauguration of the nation 's first black president was the news story they followed most closely . By comparison , 25 % say the same of the economy , according to the latest Pew Research Center weekly News Interest Index survey . The inauguration 's many story lines – from complex logistics to analysis of Obama 's speech – easily made that event the most reported story of the week . According to the weekly content analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , the media devoted 24 % of the national newshole to the inauguration . The troubled economy was the second most covered story at 15 % of the newshole as several big stories kept people focused on the nation 's financial woes despite the inaugural celebrations .
In terms of both raw numbers and population rates , gun suicides have been on the rise in recent years , even as gun homicides have fallen . In 2010 , the gun suicide rate was 6.3 per 100,000 people , compared with 3.6 per 100,000 for gun homicides .
China 's economic transformation has led to many changes in the everyday lives of its citizens . Most Chinese embrace a modern lifestyle , with 66 % saying they like the pace of modern life . However , the same percentage says their traditional way of life is getting lost . And 79 % believe their way of life needs to be protected against foreign influence ( though only 30 % completely agree with this view ) . In a society with a rapidly growing middle class , slightly more than half ( 53 % ) think that consumerism and commercialism are a threat to their culture , up from 43 % in 2012 . Just 34 % say consumerism and commercialism do not pose a threat .
More broadly , views on trade seem to reflect a public 's general economic mood . Globally , among respondents who think their economy is doing well , a median of 53 % across 24 countries say trade creates jobs and 39 % believe it increases wages . Among those publics who say their economy is doing poorly , just 43 % believe trade generates jobs and 29 % say it boosts wages .
Using people 's answers to these six questions , Pew Research Center created an `` early adopter index '' that classifies Americans ' preferences for new technology products or familiar ones into three tiers : strong , medium and weak . Some 28 % of Americans hold strong preferences for being early adopters and trying new technology products , 45 % score at or near the mean of the index , and 26 % score low on the index , indicating a stronger preference for familiar technology products .
Pew Research has tracked vote preference among different age cohorts in the past several presidential and midterm elections and looked at who was president when each cohort turned 18 . Does the person who is in the White House when people come of age affect their long-term political leanings ? By looking at likely voters from our pre-election surveys , we can see how each age cohort voted relative to the national average .
Oprah Winfrey 's well-publicized appearances with Barack Obama have raised Obama 's visibility , especially among African Americans . Roughly a quarter of Americans ( 26 % ) say they have heard more about Obama recently than any other presidential candidate , up from just 10 % in November . Meanwhile , though Hillary Clinton remains the most visible candidate overall , the proportion citing her as the candidate they have heard the most about fell from a high of 61 % in November to 41 % in the current poll .
But those favored descriptors shift markedly across the generations . While two-thirds of Mexican immigrants used `` Mexican , '' only 39 % of second-generation Mexicans and 32 % of third-generation Mexicans did so . Conversely , while just 3 % of Mexican immigrants called themselves American , 35 % of second-generation and 45 % of third-generation Mexicans did .
Along with confidence in their leader , a majority of Russians are also satisfied with the direction of their country . In 2018 , 57 % of Russians say they are satisfied with the way things are going in Russia today , compared with 40 % who are dissatisfied . Russians have been satisfied with the current state of the nation since 2014 , but before then , stretching back to 2002 , Russian attitudes were generally more negative about the direction of the country . Those who have confidence in Putin are about three times as likely to say the country is going in the right direction ( 63 % satisfied ) compared with those who lack confidence ( 20 % ) .
A majority of adults from all age groups believe that adult children have an obligation to support their aging parents . Overall , 75 % of the public says adult children have a responsibility to provide financial assistance to an elderly parent if he or she needs it . Only 23 % say this is not a responsibility . But adults of all ages are much more reluctant to say parents have a responsibility to support their grown children . Overall , 52 % say parents have a responsibility to provide financial assistance to an adult child if he or she needs it ; 44 % say this is not a responsibility .
As the 2020 U.S. census approaches , Americans overwhelmingly are aware of it , and more than eight-in-ten ( 84 % ) say they definitely or probably will participate , a new Pew Research Center survey finds . Still , 16 % express at least some uncertainty about responding , with higher shares saying this among some demographic groups .
The share of women concurrently serving in Cabinet-level positions peaked during President Bill Clinton 's second term , at 40.9 % . During President Trump 's administration so far , the maximum share of women serving at one time has been 26.1 % . Now , following Nikki Haley 's resignation as UN ambassador , the share stands at 21.7 % . The first woman in a Cabinet-level position was Frances Perkins , appointed as secretary of labor by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1933 . To date , seven women have served as labor secretary , more than in any other Cabinet or Cabinet-level position . Gina Haspel , appointed by President Donald Trump in 2018 , is the first female director of the Central Intelligence Agency , a Cabinet-level position .
Communal tensions – between Indians of various religious faiths and castes – have long plagued Indian society . Most Indians are at least somewhat concerned about these tensions , but even larger shares are worried about other national issues , according to a 2017 Pew Research Center survey . Almost four-in-ten Indians ( 37 % ) said `` communal relations '' are a very big problem in their country , while an additional 31 % named this as a moderately big problem . But greater shares of Indian adults named crime , terrorism , corruption , lack of employment opportunities , rising prices and other issues as major national problems .
Nearly all Orthodox Ethiopians ( 98 % ) say religion is very important to them , compared with a median of 34 % of Orthodox saying this across 13 countries surveyed in Central and Eastern Europe . About three-quarters of Orthodox Ethiopians say they attend church every week ( 78 % ) , compared with a median of 10 % in Central and Eastern Europe and just 6 % in Russia .
A second major issue likely to be considered by the 115th Congress – possible changes to Medicare – has not resonated widely with the public . Overall , only about half of the public ( 51 % ) has heard a lot ( 12 % ) or a little ( 39 % ) about a proposal to change Medicare to a program that would give future participants a credit toward purchasing private health insurance . About as many either have heard nothing ( 48 % ) or do n't know ( 1 % ) .
Views of the job situation continue to differ along partisan lines . Currently , 69 % of Democrats say jobs are difficult to find in their area , as do 65 % of independents . By comparison , about half ( 49 % ) of Republicans . This gap has persisted since November , even as the impression that jobs are scarce has risen across party lines .
Eight of the 10 countries that are expected to gain the most people by 2100 are in Africa : Nigeria ( with the largest gain , 527 million ) , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Tanzania , Ethiopia , Angola , Niger , Egypt and Sudan . ( This recent animation of the UN data shows African nations ' long-term rise up the population ranks . ) The two non-African nations on this list are Pakistan and the United States , which are projected to see population gains of 182 million and 103 million people , respectively .
History remains a neuralgic issue in Sino-Japanese relations . Seven decades after the end of World War II , the two publics have starkly differing perceptions of whether Japan has expressed adequate regret for its wartime behavior . Roughly half the Japanese say their country has apologized sufficiently for its military actions during the 1930s and 1940s . And such sentiment is up 13 percentage points since 2006 . The Chinese see this issue quite differently . Just 10 % of Chinese believe Japan has apologized enough . And the difference between Japanese and Chinese sentiment has grown from 37 points to 43 points in the past decade .
Germany is Europe 's economic engine and its most populous nation . It is also home to 6 million immigrants born outside of the EU , the most of any EU country . Attitudes toward immigrants are even more positive there than in the U.S . In 2014 , two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Germans said immigrants are a strength because of their hard work and talents , while just 29 % said immigrants are a burden because they take jobs and social benefits . In the United Kingdom , by contrast , views toward immigrants are more uniformly positive . The U.K. is also home to a significant number of immigrants born outside of the EU ( 5.2 million ) . About half ( 52 % ) said immigrants are a strength , a share that trailed only Germany . At the same time , just 20 % in the U.K. said immigrants are more to blame for crime than other groups , among the lowest shares in Europe . On assimilation , about half ( 47 % ) said immigrants today want to be distinct from U.K. society .
Women 's role in the labor force and leadership positions has grown dramatically . The labor force participation rate for American women has risen steadily since the 1960s . In fact , mothers were the sole or primary breadwinner in a record 40 % of all households with children in 2011 . The gender pay gap has narrowed over this period of time , especially for young women just entering the labor force , but it still persists . As more women have entered the workforce , the share of women in top leadership jobs has risen , but they still make up a small share of the nation 's political and business leaders relative to men . Why the continued disparity ? While Americans say women are every bit as capable of being good leaders as men , four-in-ten believe they are held to higher standards than men and that the U.S. is just not ready to put more women in top leadership positions .
Moreover , Americans are far more inclined than Western Europeans to say it is necessary to believe in God in order to be moral and have good values ; 53 % say this is the case in the U.S. , compared with just one-third in Germany , 20 % in Britain , 19 % in Spain and 15 % in France .
As in previous policy priority surveys , the widest partisan gap is on the importance of dealing with global climate change . About six-in-ten Democrats ( 62 % ) say this should be a top priority for the president and Congress . Just 15 % of Republicans say the same – making climate change by far the lowest-ranked of 21 policy priorities among Republicans . Republicans have ranked global climate change – or global warming in surveys prior to 2015 – at or close to the bottom of the list of policy priorities for more than a decade . At the same time , the share of Democrats who rate climate change as a top priority has steadily increased in recent years – from 46 % in 2015 to 62 % currently . There also is a sizable partisan gap over the importance of environmental protection as a policy priority . While 72 % of Democrats say protecting the environment should be a top priority for Congress and the president , just 35 % of Republicans say this .
In Eastern Europe , a once large and vibrant Jewish population has nearly disappeared . DellaPergola estimates that there were 3.4 million Jews in the European portions of the Soviet Union as of 1939 . Many were killed in the Holocaust , and others moved to Israel or elsewhere . Today , a tiny fraction of the former Soviet republics ' population – an estimated 310,000 people – are Jews . Similar trends have occurred in Eastern European countries that were outside the USSR , including Poland , Hungary , Romania and several other nations . Collectively , they were home to about 4.7 million Jews in 1939 , but now there are probably fewer than 100,000 Jews in all these countries combined .
Climate change is not viewed as a distant threat . Across the nations surveyed , a median of 51 % believe people are already being harmed by climate change and another 28 % think people will be harmed in the next few years . More than half in 39 of 40 countries are concerned it will cause harm to them personally during their lifetime ( the United Kingdom is the exception ) , and a global median of 40 % are very worried this will happen .
A year ago , 30 % of Republicans said transportation was a top priority for Trump and Congress . Today , that share has increased to 50 % . Among Democrats , 48 % say improving the country 's roads and public transportation is a top priority , little changed from a year ago ( 42 % ) .
For instance , more than half of Hispanic cell internet users ( 53 % ) face slow download times at least weekly or more often , compared with 44 % of white cell internet users who report this problem . Some 41 % of black and 39 % of Hispanic cell owners reported dropping calls at least weekly , compared with 30 % of white cell owners .
One area where supporters of Trump 's candidacy have been more likely to reach out to voters is through the use of pre-recorded phone calls or robocalls . Fully 42 % of people who received pre-recorded phone calls say they solely received these calls on behalf of Trump , 24 % have solely received them in support of Clinton . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) voters who have received robocalls say they have heard from both Clinton and Trump supporters .
In Taiwan , people tend to have negative views when it comes to mainland China . Just 35 % of adults give positive marks to mainland China , while about six-in-ten hold unfavorable views . Still , when it comes to financial ties , about half say they support closer economic relations with the mainland ; 44 % oppose this idea .
Since at least 2012 , Americans have been more likely to say there are strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans than exist between other groups in U.S. society , such as rich and poor people , young and older people , and black and white people . About nine-in-ten Americans ( 91 % ) say that conflicts between the party coalitions are either strong or very strong , according to a Pew Research Center survey in January . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say these conflicts are very strong .
As the Obama administration deliberates over whether to allow the Keystone XL pipeline to be built , the proposed pipeline continues to draw broad support from the public . Currently , 61 % favor building the pipeline while 27 % are opposed . These views have changed little over the past year . As previous surveys on the pipeline proposal have found , there is far more support for constructing the pipeline among Republicans ( 84 % favor ) and independents ( 61 % ) than among Democrats . About half of Democrats ( 49 % ) favor building the pipeline while 38 % are opposed . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 27-Mar . 16 among 3,335 adults , provides an opportunity for a detailed look at differences among Democrats on this issue . Opposition to building the pipeline is most widespread among highly educated Democrats , liberals and those with high family incomes . While Democrats without college degrees support construction by a wide margin ( 53 % to 34 % ) , only about four-in-ten college-graduate Democrats ( 39 % ) favor the project and nearly half ( 47 % ) oppose it . ( Among Democrats in the survey , 28 % had a bachelor 's degree or higher . )
White and black voters are more likely to say they turned out to vote on Election Day than beforehand ( 56 % of white voters and 59 % of black voters say they voted on Election Day ) . About half of Hispanic voters report voting on Election Day , while half say they voted early ( 49 % vs. 50 % ) .
For those who own a smartphone , these devices now outpace more traditional means of accessing the web . Some 46 % of smartphone owners say when using the internet , they mostly do so on their phone . This represents a double-digit increase from 2013 , when 34 % of these users said this . At the same time , the share of smartphone users who say a desktop , laptop or tablet computer is their primary device for going online has fallen from 53 % in 2013 to 30 % today . Roughly one-quarter of smartphone users say they equally use a cellphone or a desktop , laptop or tablet computer when going online , up from 12 % six years prior .
The survey finds that , compared with other parts of the world , people in sub-Saharan Africa are feeling relatively positive about the economy . Many nations in the region have enjoyed strong growth in recent years , and it is clearly having an impact on public attitudes . Across the nine nations polled , a median of 48 % say their national economy is in good shape . While still less than half , this is a significantly higher share of the public than in other parts of the world , with the exception of the Asia-Pacific region . Positive economic ratings are especially common in Ethiopia , Senegal , South Africa and Nigeria , where majorities believe their country is doing well economically . ( For more on global public opinion on economic issues , see this recent report based on Pew Research Center 's 40-nation Spring 2015 survey , which includes the nine countries featured here . ) And when asked about the near-term economic future , sub-Saharan Africa is the most positive region of the world . A median of 60 % believe their nation 's economy will improve in the next 12 months . Latin America is a distant second at 44 % , and Europe trails the world at 24 % . Over the long term , Africans are optimistic about the economic prospects for the next generation . A median of 56 % in the region believe that when today 's children grow up , they will be financially better off than their parents . About seven-in-ten or more hold this view in Nigeria , Ethiopia and Burkina Faso . Tanzania , Kenya and South Africa are the only nations in the region where less than half are optimistic for the next generation .
In mid-2000 , there were about 4 million Mexicans living in the U.S. who had arrived since 1990 . That population reached 6 million at the beginning of 2004 and about 7 million in the first quarter of 2007 ( Figure 1 ) . All further references to the `` Mexican immigrant population '' in this section are for individuals who were born in Mexico and have resided in the U.S. since 1990 , regardless of their immigration status .
Worldwide , the percentage of female migrants has risen from 47.2 in 1980 to 49.6 in 2005 , according to the United Nations . In the United States , however , the share of female migrants declined from 53.2 % in 1980 to 50.2 % in 2005 ( Figure 1 ) .
ISIS is seen as the top threat on both sides of the Atlantic . Eight-in-ten Americans say the Islamic militant group in Iraq and Syria is a major threat to the U.S. , similar to the median of 76 % across the 10 EU nations polled . Concern about ISIS is particularly high in Spain ( 93 % say it is a major threat ) and France ( 91 % ) . Americans and Europeans may agree ISIS is a top threat , but they differ in how they rank other concerns . For example , while climate change is the second biggest concern in Europe , it is lower on the list in the U.S . Instead , Americans name cyberattacks as the second greatest threat . China 's emergence as a world power rates relatively low in both the U.S. and Europe , although Americans are more concerned than Europeans about Beijing 's growing power .
Democrats continue to be much more likely to say spending should be increased than Republicans – about seven-in-ten Democrats ( 73 % ) say this , compared with just 27 % of Republicans . The numbers saying this in both parties are largely unchanged since 2017 , though both parties are more likely to say this than they were six years ago . More than half of the public ( 55 % ) say they would increase spending on environmental protection if they were making up the budget for the federal government this year . This is larger than the 46 % who said this in 2017 and much larger than the one-third of Americans who said they would increase spending in 2013 . The share of Democrats saying they would increase spending on environmental protection has risen steadily since 2011 . And the nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) who say they would increase spending today is 12-percentage points higher than it was two years ago . Republican views are little different than they were in 2017 . However , GOP support for increasing spending for environmental protection is significantly higher than it was in 2013 ( 29 % say this now , compared with 11 % then ) .
Border Patrol agents apprehended about half as many migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border in fiscal 2020 as they did the year before , according to newly released federal data . The sharp drop in the number of apprehended migrants follows a virtual shutdown of the border and new restrictions in the way asylum cases are handled in response to the coronavirus outbreak . Following a dramatic rise in fiscal 2019 , apprehensions at the U.S.-Mexico border fell by about half in fiscal 2020 as COVID-19 closed borders . There were 400,651 apprehensions in the 2020 fiscal year ( October 2019-September 2020 ) , a 53 % decrease from the previous fiscal year , when apprehensions soared to their highest level in 12 years . The fiscal 2020 total was generally on par with other recent years and far below the 1,643,679 recorded in the peak year of 2000 . Border apprehensions regularly exceeded 1 million per fiscal year during the 1980s , 1990s and 2000s .
Following two remarkably unproductive years , Congress picked up the pace in 2015 . More laws were enacted this year than in the first year of any two-year congressional term since 2009 , and more substantive laws were enacted than in any first-session year since 2007 . As of Dec. 29 , Congress has passed 113 measures that have been signed into law , compared with 72 in 2013 and 81 in 2011 , according to the Library of Congress ' THOMAS database . ( A few more still await President Obama 's signature . ) Of that total , we deemed 87 to be `` substantive '' by our deliberately generous criteria – that is , any legislation other than renaming buildings , awarding medals , commemorating historic events and other purely ceremonial actions . By contrast , the previous two Congresses managed to pass just 63 ( in 2011 ) and 61 ( in 2013 ) substantive laws , respectively . Still , the current Congress lagged far behind the 108th , which enacted 198 laws – 144 of them substantive – in 2003 , the first year of its term .
Compared with Obama after five years in office , George W. Bush had a lower level of approval among his base – but more of them strongly approved . In December 2005 , 82 % of conservative Republicans approved of Bush while 65 % said they strongly approved . In fact , Bush continued to have the support of 8-in-10 conservative Republicans into 2006 and 2007 and retained strong approval among 6-in-10 . ( See Bush 's five-year trend at the bottom of the post . )
Western Europeans have strikingly negative views of Trump . In the United Kingdom , Germany , France and Spain – four nations the Center has consistently surveyed over the past 15 years – there is a clear pattern in public perceptions of U.S. presidents . People in these countries generally had little confidence in President George W. Bush to do the right thing regarding world affairs . Their confidence was much higher in Bush 's successor , President Barack Obama , but it plunged following Trump 's election in 2016 . This year , confidence in Trump remains low in Germany , France and Spain – but it is up slightly in the UK . Of the 25 countries surveyed , a median of 70 % lack confidence in Trump to do the right thing regarding world affairs .
People who live in places with abortion clinics nearby are much more likely to say it is easy for someone in their area to obtain an abortion than those who live further away . Three-quarters of those within 5 miles of an abortion clinic say it is at least somewhat easy for someone to obtain an abortion in their area , while 47 % of those who live 50 miles away from the nearest clinic say this . This pattern is similar among both Democrats and Republicans .
The public continues to support the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria . But most Americans say the U.S. military effort against ISIS is not going well , and just 30 % think the U.S. and its allies have a `` clear goal '' in taking military action .
Overall , 85 % of teens in a romantic relationship expect to hear from their partner or significant other at least once a day , if not more often . 11 % expect to hear from their partner hourly . 35 % expect to hear something every few hours . 38 % expect to hear from their significant other once a day .
But only three-in-ten Japanese express confidence in U.S. President Donald Trump 's handling of world affairs . This judgment is up 6 percentage points from that in 2017 . But it is 45 points below the median level of Japanese confidence in his predecessor , Barack Obama , over his two terms in office .
In nearly all countries polled , majorities oppose monitoring by the U.S. government of emails and phone calls of foreign leaders or their citizens . In contrast , Americans tilt toward the view that eavesdropping on foreign leaders is an acceptable practice , and they are divided over using this technique on average people in other countries . However , the majority of Americans and others around the world agree that it is acceptable to spy on suspected terrorists , and that it is unacceptable to spy on American citizens .
These demographic gaps are little changed over the course of the last few years . Americans ages 65 and over are the most positive in their evaluations of the economy , with 70 % saying it is in excellent or good shape . By comparison , about half of 18 - 29 year olds ( 47 % ) say the same . And while more than six-in-ten white people ( 64 % ) offer positive evaluations of the economy , that compares with roughly half of Hispanic people ( 49 % ) and just a third of black Americans ( 33 % ) .
Democrats divided on how far to go in investigating Trump administration . With the Democratic Party now in control of House committees , Democrats are divided on whether they are more concerned congressional Democrats will focus too much – or not enough – in investigating the Trump administration . About half of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 51 % ) say their bigger concern is that Democrats in Congress will not focus enough on investigating the administration ; nearly as many ( 46 % ) say their bigger concern is they will focus too much on investigations .
The share of Christians in South Korea ( 29 % ) is much smaller than the share of Christians among Korean Americans living in the U.S. Nearly three-quarters of Korean Americans ( 71 % ) say they are Christian , including 61 % who are Protestant and 10 % who are Catholic .
During the week of the Pennsylvania primary , the national media focused heavily on the presidential campaign . News of the campaign eclipsed most other stories – as the media devoted 44 % of its overall coverage to the presidential race , up from 31 % the previous week . Public interest ticked up only modestly : 34 % followed campaign news very closely up from 29 % the previous week . One-in-four listed the campaign as the single news story they followed more closely than any other , placing it on par with rising gas prices . The gap between interest in campaign news and coverage of the campaign is larger than it has been in recent weeks .
About three-in-ten whites ( 29 % ) say they have ever spoken with or been interviewed by a local journalist or reporter , compared with 19 % of nonwhites . ( Nonwhite includes all racial and ethnic groups except non-Hispanic white . ) This difference is particularly striking given that nonwhites generally are more engaged consumers of local news than whites . For instance , while 43 % of nonwhites follow local news very closely , only a third of whites say the same – a similar pattern to what we found in our 2015 study of local news habits in three cities . Among adults of all races , women are about as likely as men to have spoken with or been interviewed by a local reporter ( 28 % of men versus 24 % of women ) . However , a gender gap emerges among white U.S. adults . Roughly a third of white men have spoken with a local reporter ( 32 % ) , compared with only about a quarter of white women ( 26 % ) . Among nonwhites , women are just as likely as men to be interviewed by a local journalist , with 19 % of both genders saying they have had the experience .
In 2015 , there were about 3.3 million Muslims of all ages living in the United States , according to our January 2016 estimate . This means that Muslims made up about 1 % of the total U.S. population ( about 322 million people in 2015 ) , and we estimated that that share will double by 2050 . Our new estimate of Muslims and other faiths was based on a demographic projection that models growth in the American Muslim population since our 2011 estimate and includes both adults and children . The projection uses data on age , fertility , mortality , migration and religious switching drawn from multiple sources , including the 2011 survey of Muslim Americans .
Nearly nine-in-ten Americans ( 87 % ) who have seen a health care provider in the past year say their concerns or descriptions of symptoms were carefully listened to , and 84 % say they felt their provider `` really cared about ( their ) health and well-being , '' according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in spring 2016 . Just 23 % of patients said they `` felt rushed by their health care provider , '' and even fewer ( 15 % ) felt confused about instructions they got for treatment or at-home care .
Nationally , 52 % of voters backed Republican candidates for Congress , while 47 % voted for Democrats , according to exit polls by the National Election Pool , as reported by The New York Times . The overall vote share is similar to the GOP 's margin in the 2010 elections , and many of the key demographic divides seen in that election — particularly wide gender and age gaps — remain .
Unauthorized immigrants increasingly are likely to have been in the U.S. for 10 years or more – 66 % in 2014 compared with 41 % in 2005 . A declining share has lived in the U.S. for less than five years ; only 14 % had been in the U.S. for less than five years in 2014 , compared with 31 % in 2005 .
Both black and Hispanic respondents were more likely than whites to say they feel they need to stay tuned in to news about the coronavirus outbreak . Roughly four-in-ten black adults said this ( 39 % ) , as did 36 % of Hispanics . Around a quarter of white adults ( 23 % ) said the same . Still , majorities in all three groups said they need to take breaks from this news from time to time ( 76 % of white , 63 % of Hispanic and 60 % of black adults ) .
But that `` insta-narrative '' turned out to be oversimplified . The 2016 election was not , in fact , an industry-wide failure for the polls .2 Rigorous national surveys – designed to measure the popular vote rather than capture the effects of the Electoral College – were quite accurate by historical standards . An average of the final , publicly released national polls suggested that Hillary Clinton would win the overall popular vote by 3 percentage points , and she ultimately won by 2 points .
Among Clinton and Trump supporters , only about a quarter ( 24 % ) who have at least some friends who back the other candidate are `` pretty outspoken '' about their voting preferences . That compares with 38 % who say they have no close friends who support the other candidate . Voters who have a lot of friends who back their preferred candidate are far more likely than others to be outspoken about who they are supporting : 45 % say they are pretty outspoken , compared with just 24 % of those with some friends who back their candidate and only 9 % of those with few or no friends who back their candidate .
The survey finds that Republican voters are less enthused about the quality of their party 's presidential candidates than are Democratic voters in the early primary states . In Iowa , where voters have had much greater exposure to the candidates than in the other early states , 73 % of Republican voters rate the GOP field as good or excellent . By comparison , 87 % of likely Democratic voters in Iowa rate their party 's candidates positively , and twice as many Iowa Democrats as Republicans rate the field as excellent ( 36 % vs. 18 % ) . In addition , fewer Republican than Democratic voters strongly support their candidates . In Iowa , 57 % of GOP voters strongly support their candidate , as do 49 % in New Hampshire and just 44 % in South Carolina . The relatively low level of strong support for candidates among Republican voters also underscores the fluidity of voter opinion in these states .
Just 12 % of Americans say they are satisfied with the way things are going in this country today – a 19 percentage point decline in national satisfaction since April and lower than at any previous point in Trump 's presidency . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) now say they are dissatisfied with the way things are going . The partisan gap in levels of satisfaction has narrowed to just 12 percentage points , with 19 % of Republicans and Republican leaners and 7 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners now saying they are satisfied with the way things are going . Until today , GOP satisfaction had been above 50 % for nearly all of Trump 's presidency – including 55 % of Republicans reporting they were satisfied with the way things were going as recently as April . While Democratic satisfaction is also lower than it was two months ago , this reflects a more modest decline ( from 10 % to 7 % ) .
Fewer teens these days are drinking alcohol , according to the University of Michigan 's long-running Monitoring the Future survey , which tracks attitudes , values and behaviors of American youths , including their use of various legal and illicit substances . Last year , 30.2 % of 12th-graders and 18.6 % of 10th-graders had consumed alcohol in the past 30 days . Two decades earlier , those figures were 52 % and 38.8 % , respectively . ( In the Center 's new survey , 16 % of teens said they felt `` a lot '' or `` some '' pressure to drink alcohol . ) But the Michigan survey also found that , despite some ups and downs , use of marijuana ( or its derivative , hashish ) among 12th-graders is nearly as high as it was two decades ago . Last year , 22.2 % reported using marijuana in the past 30 days , versus 22.8 % in 1998 . Past-month marijuana use among 10th-graders has declined a bit over that same period , from 18.7 % to 16.7 % , but is up from 14 % in 2016 . Marijuana was by far the most commonly used drug among teens last year , as it has been for decades . While more than 10 % of 12th-graders reported using some illicit drug other than marijuana in the late 1990s and early 2000s , that figure had fallen to 6 % by last year .
From 2000 to 2015 , the share of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters describing their political views as liberal increased by 15 percentage points , from 27 % to 42 % . In 2015 , more Democratic voters identified as liberals ( 42 % ) than as moderates ( 38 % ) or conservatives ( 17 % ) , based on an average of Pew Research Center political surveys conducted last year . In 2008 , when Barack Obama defeated Clinton for the party 's nomination , 41 % of Democratic voters called themselves moderates , while just 33 % said they were liberals and 23 % said they were conservatives . And in 2000 , moderate Democratic voters outnumbered liberals by 45 % to 27 % .
The average amount of weekday local TV news programming was increased slightly in 2018 , according to the RTDNA/Hofstra University survey . Local TV stations dedicated an average of 5.9 hours to news programming per weekday in 2018 , up slightly from 5.6 hours in 2017 .
Among the seven nations surveyed , Greeks and Italians express particularly negative views about immigration . Eight-in-ten or more in both countries want less immigration , as do majorities in France and the UK . Public opinion is more closely divided in Spain , Germany and Poland , between those who want fewer immigrants admitted to their countries and those who say current levels should stay about the same . However , there is very little desire for allowing more immigrants in any of these seven nations – the percentage who hold this view ranges from 14 % in Germany to only 1 % in Greece .
A substantial minority of Mexicans say that if they had the means and opportunity to go live in the U.S. they would do so , and more than half of those who would migrate if they had the chance say they would do so without authorization .
The share of Americans who say they have broadband service at home has also risen slightly over the past year – from 65 % in early 2018 to 73 % today . But compared with smartphone ownership , there are more pronounced variations in broadband adoption across demographic groups . For example , 92 % of adults from households earning $ 75,000 or more a year say they have broadband internet at home , but that share falls to 56 % among those whose annual household income falls below $ 30,000 . That 36-point gap in broadband adoption between the highest- and lowest-income groups is substantially larger than the 24-point gap in smartphone ownership between these groups . Educational differences follow a nearly identical pattern .
The weeks since Biden 's victory have been marked by the Trump campaign 's frantic and thus far unsuccessful attempts to challenge the election results in several states . Voters express much more positive views of Biden 's conduct since the election than Trump 's – and 57 % say the Trump campaign 's legal challenges to the voting and ballot counting process should end . A majority of voters ( 62 % ) say Biden 's post-election conduct has been excellent or good , while just half as many ( 31 % ) give Trump positive ratings for his conduct since the election . About seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) view Trump 's conduct as only fair or poor , with a 54 % majority rating it poor .
More than half ( 56 % ) of foreign graduates who participated in OPT between 2004 and 2016 obtained their degree from a public college or university . Four-in-ten ( 41 % ) came from private universities and colleges , of which 38 % were not-for-profit schools and 3 % were for-profit institutions . Fewer than 3 % of OPT enrollees graduated from schools not classified under the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education ( CCIHE ) .
About six-in-ten Republicans ( 62 % ) now think the U.S. does too much in helping address global challenges , while just 26 % of Democrats share this view . In Pew Research Center telephone surveys dating back to 2013 , the partisan gap in these views was far more modest . A related question about America 's role in international affairs also shows strong differences along both partisan and ideological lines . Six-in-ten Americans say the U.S. should focus on its own problems and let other countries deal with their problems as best they can ; only 39 % think the U.S. should help other countries deal with their problems . However , fully 64 % of liberal Democrats believe the U.S. should help other countries . This is significantly higher than the 44 % registered among moderate and conservative Democrats , and nearly triple the shares of moderate and liberal Republicans and conservative Republicans who hold this view .
Since Trump 's inauguration in January 2017 , Democrats ' views of both the Department of Justice and the Environmental Protection Agency have become far less positive . For both agencies , Democrats ' favorability ratings are near their lowest levels in the past eight years . Today , 57 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners view the Justice Department favorably , while 36 % have an unfavorable opinion . The share of Democrats with favorable views of the department have fallen 17 percentage points since January of last year ( from 74 % to 57 % ) . Republicans ' views of the Justice Department have become more favorable since then ; 60 % view the department favorably , up from 47 % about a year and a half ago .
The difficult economic climate in the industry has taken its toll on magazine jobs in the past decade . Overall employment on both the business and editorial sides of U.S. magazines fell 3 % in 2013 , following a 4 % decline in 2012 , according to Advertising Age 's analysis of recent Bureau of Labor Statistics data . Over the longer term , consumer magazines have shed a total of 41,500 jobs since 2003 ( a 28 % drop ) .
Americans paid close attention last week to three story lines with links to the events of Sept. 11 , 2001 . In addition to interest in the possible Koran burning ( 33 % very closely ) , the public also very closely tracked news about developments in Afghanistan ( 30 % ) and Sept. 11 anniversary commemorations ( 33 % ) . Nearly as many ( 9 % ) say they followed news about the ninth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks most closely . News about commemorations made up 2 % of coverage . More than two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they followed news about this year 's congressional elections very closely . This was the most closely followed news for 8 % and accounted for 12 % of coverage . Some 16 % say they followed the debate in Washington over competing Democratic and Republican tax plans very closely ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the tax plans made up 4 % of coverage . In its overall analysis , PEJ included news about the tax debate with news about the economic crisis in general , a topic that accounted for 17 % of coverage last week .
There are demographic differences among Republicans on many of these issues – and in views of Trump . For instance , Republicans younger than 30 are much less likely to say that immigrants to the United States threaten our values than those 65 or over ( 57 % vs. 83 % ) . Younger Republicans are also less positive in their assessments of Trump ( 37 % warm vs. 56 % among those 65 and older ) . In addition to age , both education and ideology are associated with views of Trump within the GOP . Republican voters with less than a college degree –particularly those with some college experience – feel more warmly toward Trump than those with more education . And conservative GOP voters rate Trump higher than moderate and liberal GOP voters .
As a result of high intermarriage rates , some of today 's Latinos have parents or grandparents of mixed heritage , with that share higher among later generations . According to the surveys , 18 % of immigrants say that they have a non-Latino parent or grandparent in their family , a share that rises to 29 % among the second generation and 65 % among the third or higher generation , according to the Pew Research Center survey of self-identified Latino adults . And for those who say they have Latino ancestry but do not identify as Latino , fully 96 % say they have some non-Latino heritage in their background .
As Trump prepares to take office , 65 % say it is more important for the president-elect to focus on domestic policy ; far fewer ( 19 % ) say it 's more important for him to focus on foreign policy . Majorities have said domestic policy should be the president 's priority for much of the last decade . The last time the public gave as much emphasis to foreign as domestic policy was in 2007 , during George W. Bush 's second term . At that time , 40 % said it was more important to focus on foreign policy , compared with 39 % who said it was more important to focus on domestic policy .
Even as NASA 's mission in the world of space exploration has changed , its spending has been relatively flat over the past few decades ( accounting for inflation ) . NASA spent $ 17.1 billion in fiscal 2014 , which accounted for 0.5 % of all federal government spending – or about one-ninth of the Department of Agriculture 's checks . As a share of the federal government 's outlays , NASA dropped from more than 4 % in the mid-1960s to about 1 % of what the U.S. spent in the early 1990s .
More than four-in-ten say they followed news last week about the U.S. economy ( 43 % ) or the earthquake ( 42 % ) very closely . Just fewer than four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they followed news about the earthquake aftermath more closely than any other major news story , while 26 % say they followed news about the condition of the economy most closely . By contrast , just about two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they followed news about problems with sudden acceleration and braking in Toyota cars and trucks very closely . One-in-ten say this was the story they followed most closely last week , according to the latest News Interest Index survey , conducted Feb. 5 - 8 among 1,015 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press .
Half the general public supports allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , up 15 points from 35 % in 2001 . But just 29 % of Republicans do . Although support among Republicans has been growing , up 8 points from 21 % in 2001 , it 's risen more slowly than in the general public . There is more support for gay marriage among liberal and moderate Republicans ( 42 % ) than among conservative Republicans ( 23 % ) .
For many working parents , there 's just not enough time . About four-in-ten full-time working mothers say they spend too little time with their kids . By comparison , 18 % of part-time working mothers and 11 % of non-working mothers say the same . For their part , working fathers are significantly more likely than working mothers to say they spend too little time with their children – fully half of full-time working fathers say this is the case .
The U.S. is still regarded as the top economic power , even more so than last year , but most people around the world continue to believe that China either will eventually replace or already has replaced the U.S. as the world 's leading superpower . A median of half across the countries surveyed say that the U.S. is the world 's leading economic power , while only 27 % say that of China . While a median of only 14 % say China has already replaced the U.S. as the top superpower , majorities or pluralities in 27 of 40 countries say China will eventually become or has already replaced the U.S. as the top superpower .
Mobile phone users see a mix of benefits and pitfalls related to their devices . Mobile phone users in each of the 11 countries surveyed are more likely to say their phone is something that frees them rather than something that ties them down . Meanwhile , a larger share of mobile phone users in seven countries believe their phone helps them save time rather than waste time – although in certain countries like the Philippines , a larger share view their phones as a time waster . People in these countries are also somewhat divided when assessing how reliant they are on their mobile device . Kenyans , South Africans , Jordanians , Tunisians and Lebanese who use a mobile phone are more likely to say their phone is something they could n't live without . But in the six other countries , larger shares say they do n't always need their phone .
A spring 2015 Pew Research Center survey also raised questions about the willingness of people in a number of NATO nations to carry through with a key commitment to the alliance . Despite tensions with Russia growing out of the Ukraine conflict , NATO members polled were divided on whether their countries should provide military support to an ally if it got into a military conflict with Russia . A median of 48 % across eight NATO nations said their country should use military force to defend allies , while 42 % among these members are opposed to using force . Yet only in the U.S. and Canada did more than half think their country should use military action if Russia attacks a fellow NATO member ( 56 % and 53 % , respectively ) . Germans ( 58 % ) were the most likely to say their country should not use military force .
In 2011 , 88 % of Republicans and 87 % of Democrats said strengthening the economy was a top priority for the president and Congress . Since then , there has been a gradual decline in the shares of both groups who place top priority on the economy , though the decline has been somewhat steeper among Democrats . In the current survey , the share of Democrats who say strengthening the economy is a top priority is down to 61 % , while the share of Republicans who say this has fallen to 74 % . The priority placed on improving the job situation also has fallen sharply among partisans in the last decade . Overall , 51 % of Democrats and 45 % of Republicans say strengthening the job situation is a top priority for the president and Congress . In 2011 , large majorities of both groups ( 87 % and 86 % , respectively ) saw this as a top priority .
More than eight-in-ten voters say the economy ( 86 % ) and jobs ( 84 % ) are very important issues in deciding who to vote for this fall . Roughly three-quarters also cite the federal budget deficit ( 74 % ) , health care ( 74 % ) and education ( 72 % ) as top voting priorities . Near the bottom of the list are some of the hot-button social issues . Just 28 % say that gay marriage is a very important issue , and 34 % rate birth control as a top issue .
Most Bloomberg supporters ( 69 % ) say the fact that some people in the U.S. have personal fortunes of a billion dollars or more is neither a good nor a bad thing for the country ; just 16 % call it a bad thing . Sanders and Warren supporters are far more likely to say billionaires are a bad thing for the country ( 55 % and 49 % , respectively , say this ) .
Teens face challenges trying to construct an appropriate and authentic online persona for multiple audiences , including adults and peers . Consequently , many teens feel obligated to project an attractive and popular image through their social media postings .
A Pew Research Center survey conducted last year shows that the French held more favorable views of both Jews and Muslims than many other Europeans . Indeed , 89 % of French adults held favorable views of Jews , while 72 % felt similarly about Muslims . In nearly every other European country surveyed , majorities rated Jews favorably , including Britain ( 83 % ) and Germany ( 82 % ) . One outlier was Greece , where as many people said they have a favorable view of Jews ( 47 % ) as an unfavorable view of them ( 47 % ) . In addition , roughly one-quarter of the general public had an unfavorable view of Jews in Poland ( 26 % ) and Italy ( 24 % ) . Positive views of Muslims were also common in Britain ( 64 % ) and Germany ( 58 % ) . But elsewhere , fewer people had a favorable view of Muslims , including roughly a third of the public in both Poland ( 32 % ) and in Italy ( 28 % ) .
The public 's top story last week was the rising price of gasoline . Fully 62 % of Americans followed news about gas prices very closely , and four-in-ten said it was the story they followed more closely than any other . Gas prices overshadowed the presidential campaign as the public 's most closely followed story by a substantial margin . For 15 % of Americans the campaign was their top story ( 25 % followed the campaign very closely ) . By contrast , the press devoted much more coverage to the campaign – 26 % of all news – than to stories about rising gas prices ( 7 % ) . In addition to following news about gas prices , 22 % of the public paid very close attention to the recent downturn in the stock market , 7 % listed this as their most closely followed story . The public is also tracking the effect these broader economic problems are having on American businesses . More than three-quarters heard about the announcement that sales for automakers Ford and General Motors fell sharply in June – 34 % heard a lot about this and 44 % heard a little . Somewhat fewer heard the news that Starbucks coffee retailer plans to close 600 stores and eliminate 12,000 jobs . One-in-four heard a lot about Starbuck 's troubles and 45 % heard a little . More men than women reported hearing a lot about falling sales for Ford and GM ( 39 % vs. 30 % ) , while men and women were equally likely to have heard a lot about closings at Starbucks .
European publics have been far from satisfied with how the EU has handled the historic number of refugees arriving there . A spring 2016 Pew Research Center survey conducted across 10 EU member states following the EU-Turkey agreement found that majorities in each country disapproved of how the EU was dealing with the refugee issue .
However , no such age differential appears on the question of whether Muslims in France want either to be distinct from the larger culture or to adopt its customs . Nearly eight-in-ten French Muslims ( 78 % ) say they want to adopt French customs . Those under age 35 are equally as likely to say this as are their elders . This high preference for assimilation compares with that expressed by 53 % of Muslims in Spain , 41 % in Britain and 30 % in Germany .
The new survey also finds continued majority support for legal abortion : 53 % of Americans say that abortion should be legal in all ( 23 % ) or most cases ( 31 % ) ; 39 % say that abortion should be illegal in all ( 16 % ) or most cases ( 23 % ) .
Democrats are somewhat more likely than Republicans to express support for journalists ' use of anonymous sources , though majorities of both parties think they are acceptable , at least in moderation . Roughly nine-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 92 % ) say that it is acceptable for journalists to use anonymous sources , as do about seven-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners ( 71 % ) . But like Americans overall , most in each party say anonymous sources should be used only in special cases . While fewer in each party say it is always acceptable to rely on anonymous sources , Democrats are about three times as likely as Republicans to say this ( 22 % vs. 8 % ) . The relationship is nearly the inverse for the feeling that anonymous sources should be forbidden . Nearly three-in-ten Republicans ( 29 % ) think that it is never acceptable to use anonymous sources – 21 percentage points higher than Democrats who say the same ( 8 % ) .
How does social media impact the discussion of news events ? Our recent survey revealed social media does n't always facilitate conversation around the important issues of the day . In fact , we found people were less willing to discuss their opinion on the Snowden-NSA story on social media than they were in person . And Facebook and Twitter users were less likely to want to share their opinions in many face-to-face settings , especially if they felt their social audience disagreed with them .
In a separate telephone survey also conducted in January , the share saying the main reason a person is rich is because they have more advantages than others has increased 13 percentage points since 2018 , while there has a been a comparable decline ( 12 points ) in the share attributing a person 's wealth more to hard work . These changes are evident among both Republicans and Democrats .
More Americans search for `` church '' around Easter than at any other time , with the Christmas season usually ranking second , according to Google Trends data between 2004 and 2013 . Google 's Trends tool measures the popularity of a search term relative to all searches in the United States . Data are reported on a scale from 0 to 100 . In 2013 , the highest share of searches for `` church '' are on the week of Easter Sunday , followed by the week of Christmas and the week of Ash Wednesday , the day that marks the beginning of Lent . The lowest share of searches occur on the week of Thanksgiving in November each year , and the summer months have consistently low levels of interest in web searches for `` church . '' Sociologists also have previously reported low levels of church attendance during the summer months . Laurence Iannaccone and Sean Everton analyzed weekly attendance records from churches and argued that people are less likely to attend church when the weather outside is just right in a journal article titled `` Never on Sunny Days . ''
In most Western countries surveyed , majorities associate Americans with the positive characteristics `` honest , '' `` inventive '' and `` hardworking . '' At the same time , substantial numbers also associate Americans with the negative traits `` greedy '' and `` violent . '' Canadians , who presumably have the greatest contact with Americans , agree with Europeans on the negatives , but are less likely to view Americans as honest . And Canada is the only Western nation in which a majority ( 53 % ) regards Americans as rude .
A growing share of people around the world see U.S. power and influence as a `` major threat '' to their country , and these views are linked with attitudes toward President Donald Trump and the United States as a whole , according to Pew Research Center surveys conducted in 22 nations since 2013 . A median of 45 % across the surveyed nations see U.S. power and influence as a major threat , up from 38 % in the same countries during Trump 's first year as president in 2017 and 25 % in 2013 , during the administration of Barack Obama . The long-term increase in the share of people who see American power as a threat has occurred alongside declines in the shares of people who say they have confidence in the U.S. president to do the right thing regarding world affairs and who have a favorable view of the United States . ( For more about global views toward the U.S. president and the country he leads , see `` Trump 's International Ratings Remain Low , Especially Among Key Allies . '' )
A substantial majority of the public ( 70 % ) believes local governments should be able to build their own broadband networks if existing services in the area are either too expensive or not good enough , according to the survey , conducted March 13 - 27 . Just 27 % of U.S. adults say these so-called municipal broadband networks should not be allowed . ( A number of state laws currently prevent cities from building their own high-speed networks , and several U.S. senators recently introduced a bill that would ban these restrictions . )
The debates draw a lot of viewers . Although viewership of the debates as a share of the total TV audience has broadly fallen over the decades , they can still attract more people than just about any other campaign event ( or televised event of any kind that does n't rhyme with `` Looper Hole '' ) . In 2016 , the first Clinton-Trump debate drew a record 84 million viewers , according to Nielsen Media Research , and 71.6 million tuned in to the third debate . By comparison , the final nights of the parties ' 2016 conventions attracted fewer than 35 million viewers each . ( The Nielsen numbers included people watching at home on traditional TV channels ; they did n't count people who may have streamed the debates online or watched them at debate parties in bars and restaurants . ) The vice presidential debates are very much the undercard . In most years since 1976 , when the candidates for vice president first had their own debate , the running mates have been runners-up when it comes to viewership . In 2016 , for example , only 37 million people watched the vice presidential debate between then-Indiana Gov . Pence and Sen. Tim Kaine , 44 % fewer than the viewership of the lowest-rated Clinton-Trump presidential debate ( the second ) , which drew 66.5 million viewers . That was the biggest-ever drop-off between the vice presidential debate and the lowest-rated presidential debate .
The public 's skepticism about U.S. international engagement – evident in America 's Place in the World surveys four and eight years ago – has increased . Currently , 52 % say the United States `` should mind its own business internationally and let other countries get along the best they can on their own . '' Just 38 % disagree with the statement . This is the most lopsided balance in favor of the U.S. `` minding its own business '' in the nearly 50-year history of the measure .
When asked which is the biggest threat to their country , India , the Taliban , or al Qaeda , a majority of Pakistanis ( 57 % ) say India .
Almost one-in-five members of the House and Senate are a racial or ethnic minority , making the 114th Congress the most diverse in history . However , Congress remains disproportionately white when compared with the U.S. population , which has grown increasingly diverse in recent decades , according to a Pew Research Center analysis . Overall , non-whites ( including blacks , Hispanics , Asian/Pacific Islanders and Native Americans ) make up 17 % of the new Congress , but that is below these groups ' 38 % share of the nation 's population . This difference also exists among the newly elected members of Congress , as minorities account for 11 of 71 ( 15 % ) new members of the House and Senate . ( No new senators are a racial or ethnic minority . )
Between 1980 and 2000 , immigration was the main driver of Latino population growth as the Latino immigrant population boomed from 4.2 million to 14.1 million . However since 2000 , the primary source of Hispanic population growth has swung from immigration to native births . Between 2000 and 2010 , there were 9.6 million Hispanic births in the U.S. , while the number of newly arrived immigrants was 6.5 million . Overall , U.S. births alone accounted for 60 % of Hispanic population growth ( births and immigration only3 during the period .4 ) These opposing trends—the rise of U.S.-born and the slowdown in immigrant population growth—have begun to reshape the adult Hispanic population . Just as the slowdown in immigration has occurred , the number of U.S.-born Hispanics entering adulthood is beginning to accelerate . Today , some 800,000 young U.S.-born Hispanics enter adulthood each year , but in the coming decades , that number will rise to more than a million annually ( Taylor , Gonzalez-Barrera , Passel and Lopez , 2012 ) .
Levels of deprivation are relatively high in the African nations surveyed . Half or more report that there have been times in the last year when they have been unable to afford food for their families in Uganda , Nigeria , Ghana , South Africa , Kenya , and Senegal . Somewhat fewer say this in Egypt and Tunisia . Overall , there is a strong correlation between the percentage of people in a country who say they have not been able to afford food at some point in the last year and that country 's per capita gross domestic product , measured in terms of purchasing power parity , or PPP . As one might expect , struggling to afford food is much less common in wealthier countries such as Canada , Australia , Japan , and Western European nations . The United States , however , has a higher percentage of people reporting difficulties buying food than its per capita income level would predict .
Currently , those who have attended college but have not received a degree lean Democratic 47 % to 42 % ; Democrats hold a 10-point lead in leaned party identification among those with no more than a high school education ( 47 % to 37 % ) . The Democrats ' wide lead in partisan identification among highly-educated adults is largely the result of a growing advantage among those with any post-graduate experience . A majority ( 56 % ) of those who have attended graduate school identify with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic , compared with 36 % who align with or lean toward the GOP .
Both Univision and Telemundo have local affiliate stations that carry their own original news programming . In 2018 , average viewership for Univision affiliates dropped in three key time slots . Univision affiliates ' late night news ( 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. ) showed a drop of 17 % , while evening news ( 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. ) viewership for Univision affiliates saw a smaller drop of 5 % . Morning news for Univision affiliates , which has far lower viewership overall , dropped by 11 % . Average viewership for Telemundo affiliates during these time slots was more varied , with evening news dropping 6 % , late night news remaining about steady , and morning news seeing a steep decline of 70 % in average audience .
Broadband access to the internet at home has risen steadily since 2000 , and the `` always on '' connection typically increases the frequency with which people use the internet and the variety of things they do online . Our December 2012 survey shows that 65 % of Americans have broadband connections at home . In June 2000 , when about half of adults were online , only 3 % of American households had broadband access . Now , as of December 2012 , the tables have turned : 3 % of Americans connect to the internet at home via dial-up .
At least six-in-ten Americans across demographic groups say they feel their information is less secure . However , there are some small differences in shares who say this by race and ethnicity , age , education , income , and partisanship . White adults are more likely to say that their information is less secure today than those of other racial and ethnic groups , with about seven-in-ten White adults ( 71 % ) saying this compared with about six-in-ten of those who identify as part of other racial and ethnic groups ( 62 % each of Black , Hispanic and Asian adults ) . Older respondents are also more likely than younger adults to say their information is less secure ; 76 % of those ages 65 and older say they feel their personal information is less secure now than it was five years ago .
Viewers tend to turn to The Daily Show primarily for entertainment , rather than in-depth reporting or the latest headlines . Many prominent public figures have been guests on the show , ranging from Academy Award winners , musicians and authors to Supreme Court justices , U.S. presidents , vice presidents and first ladies . Still , the most commonly cited reason viewers watch The Daily Show is for its entertainment value . A 2010 Pew Research Center study on Americans ' news media habits found that 43 % of regular Daily Show viewers said they mainly turn to the show for entertainment , compared with 24 % who said they watch for views and opinions , 10 % for the latest headlines and just 2 % for in-depth reporting ( 20 % gave some mix or all of the reasons ) .
Parents of teenagers express similar levels of concern as teens themselves , with 63 % saying they are at least somewhat worried about the possibility of a shooting happening at their child 's school . And there are similar patterns when it comes to race and gender , with nonwhite parents and mothers expressing more concern . Lower-income parents are particularly worried – in fact , 82 % of parents with annual household incomes under $ 30,000 say they are at least somewhat worried that a shooting could happen at their teen 's school , compared with 64 % of those with incomes between $ 30,000 and $ 74,999 and 53 % of those with incomes of $ 75,000 or more .
White teens are much more likely to work over the summer than teens of other races and ethnicities . Last year , for example , the summer employment rate for 16- to 19-year-old whites was 34.0 % , versus 19.3 % for blacks , 23.0 % for Asians and 25.0 % for Hispanics ( who can be of any race ) . About 1.3 million more teens were employed in July 2014 than in April , a rough gauge of summer jobholding ; 1.1 million , or 84.2 % , were white .
Even though many believe life is better for those who emigrate to the U.S. , most Mexicans ( 61 % ) say they would not move to the U.S. , even if they had the means and opportunity to do so . Among the substantial minority who would move , half say they would emigrate without authorization ( 19 % of the total population ) . These attitudes are unchanged since last year .
Roughly half of Americans ( 48 % ) say it is acceptable for DNA testing companies to share customers ' genetic data with law enforcement agencies to help solve crimes , according to a Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted June 3 - 17 , 2019 . Fewer – a third – say this is unacceptable , while 18 % are unsure . Similar shares of Americans across most demographic groups say that law enforcement 's use of genetic data for crimes is acceptable , and that applies when asking specifically about Americans ' use of mail-in DNA tests . About half ( 51 % ) of adults who have used DNA mail-in services say this use of genetic data is acceptable , compared with 48 % of adults who have not used these mail-in services . However , there are a few exceptions where there are differences among groups . For example , 56 % of adults ages 50 and older say it is acceptable for DNA testing companies to share genetic data with law enforcement to help solve crimes , compared with 42 % of those under 50 years old . There is a smaller , yet statistically significant , difference by party – Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are more likely than Democrats and Democrat-leaning independents to approve of the data use ( 52 % vs. 47 % ) .
The research : Declining response rates have been a fixation for pollsters , who track their ebb like hawks . While few would claim the single-digit rates are something to boast about , research thus far – including the 15-year track compiled by SSRS 's David Dutwin , below – has not suggested that decreasing response rates are leading to increasing error rates . On the other hand , one of the few types of nonresponse bias that has been consistently noted by researchers is the fact that those who participate in surveys are also more likely to participate in civic activities – they are more likely to be `` joiners , '' in other words . Our own Scott Keeter and Drew DeSilver have a wrap-up on the challenges of polling when fewer people are available to be polled , that covers this issue and others .
In Latin America and the Caribbean , the median age is 31 , almost identical to the global median . About a quarter of Latin Americans ( 24 % ) are below the age of 15 , and 13 % are 60 or older .
While the media divided its attention between news about the 2012 candidates for president and news about the economy , the public continued to focus most closely on news about the struggling economy . A quarter of the public ( 25 % ) says that news about the condition of the economy was their top story of the week , while 17 % say they followed news about the presidential campaign most closely . Interest in news about the economy has changed little in recent weeks . Nearly half ( 46 % ) say they followed news about the economy very closely last week , about the same as one week earlier . News about the economy accounted for 14 % of coverage , according to PEJ .
Yet unlike in the previous two midterms , anti-incumbent sentiment is shared fairly equally among both Democratic and Republican voters . Today , 38 % of those who support the GOP candidate in their district say their own representative does not deserve reelection ; nearly as many Democrats ( 34 % ) share that view . In 2010 , when Democrats still controlled Congress , twice as many GOP voters as Democratic voters wanted to see their own representative defeated ( 44 % vs. 22 % ) ; in 2006 , when the GOP controlled Congress , anti-incumbent sentiment was far more widespread among Democrats ( 39 % ) than Republicans ( 22 % ) .
By 57 % to 34 % , Republicans younger than 50 support a policy to grant permanent legal status to immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally when they were children . By contrast , Republicans ages 50 and older are evenly divided ( 45 % favor , 45 % oppose ) . There is a similar divide by ideology : Most moderate and liberal Republicans ( 58 % ) support this immigration proposal , while conservative Republicans are split ( 46 % favor , 44 % oppose ) . Republican women are somewhat more likely than men to back this proposal , and Republicans who are college graduates express more support than those who have not graduated from college . While majorities of nearly all Republican groups back substantially expanding the wall along the U.S. border with Mexico , those ages 18 to 49 are less likely to support this policy than those 50 and older ( 60 % compared with 83 % ) . And support for an expended border wall is significantly higher among conservative Republicans ( 81 % ) than among moderates and liberals ( 55 % ) .
About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they followed news about widespread local and state budget problems very closely ; 7 % say these were the stories they followed most closely . Coverage of the budget difficulties and their impact accounted of 2 % of reporting measured by PEJ , though this news likely received more coverage from local sources not included in the analysis . More than a quarter ( 27 % ) say they followed news about the earthquake in Chile very closely ; 22 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the earthquake took up 10 % of the newshole . Despite its strength , the earthquake in Chile caused much less loss of life than the temblor that struck Haiti in early January . Just after that earthquake , 60 % said they were following news about it and its aftermath very closely . A quarter say they followed news about the 2010 congressional elections very closely , although just 4 % say this was the story they followed most closely . These stories account for 5 % of coverage . Developments in Iraq – including the at-times violent run-up to Sunday 's elections – were closely followed by 26 % . This was the most closely followed story for 7 % . Iraq news accounted for 2 % of the newshole .
Over the past two years , Pence 's ratings have become more divided along partisan lines . Currently , 71 % of Republican voters give Pence a warm rating , including 59 % who have very warm feelings toward him ( ratings of 76 to 100 ) . In March 2018 , 65 % viewed Pence warmly , with 50 % saying they had very warm feelings .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds 44 % of Americans have a favorable opinion of China , up from 37 % a year ago . The growth in positive ratings for China may be due in part to declining concerns about economic threats from China . The share of the public that sees the amount of U.S. debt held by Beijing , the loss of jobs to China and the trade deficit with China as very serious problems has dropped significantly in recent years . For example , 61 % said the trade deficit was a very serious problem in 2012 , compared with 44 % today . Concerns about Chinese cyberattacks have , on the other hand , risen to 55 % from 50 % five years ago . Still , debt , trade and jobs have not disappeared as sources of concern for Americans , and overall about half the public ( 52 % ) continues to see China as more of an economic threat than a military one .
Opinion about Trump 's highest profile policy proposal to date – his executive order limiting entry to the U.S. by refugees and people from seven Muslim-majority countries – is similar to his overall job approval . About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) approve of this policy , while 59 % disapprove .
Positive views of the economy are up 34 percentage points since the early days of the global financial crisis in 2009 . Nonetheless , in 2018 just 44 % say the current economic situation in Japan is good , while 55 % believe conditions are bad .
This list includes Lebanon , which requires its president to be a member of the Maronite Christian Church . On Wednesday , Lebanon 's parliament will make a ninth attempt since May at filling the office . More than half of the countries with religion-related restrictions on their heads of state ( 17 ) maintain that the office must be held by a Muslim . In Jordan , for example , the heir to the throne must be a Muslim child of Muslim parents . In Tunisia , any Muslim male or female voter born in the country may qualify as a candidate for president . Malaysia , Pakistan and Mauritania also restrict their heads of state to Muslim citizens . Two countries , Lebanon and Andorra , require their heads of state to have a Christian affiliation . Lebanon also has a religious requirement of its prime minister , who must be a Sunni Muslim . Two other countries require the heads of their monarchies be Buddhist : Bhutan and Thailand . And one country , Indonesia , requires the official state belief in Pancasila to be upheld by its head of state . Indonesia is a Muslim-majority country ; Pancasila is a summation of `` common cultural elements '' of Indonesia , including belief in God .
As the number of Mexicans has decreased , the number of unauthorized immigrants from other parts of the world has increased . The estimated number from countries other than Mexico declined from 5.3 million in 2007 to 5 million in 2009 , but grew after that , reaching 5.4 million in 2015 and 5.7 million in the preliminary 2016 estimate .
The Muslim population in the United States is younger than the U.S. population at large . In fact , while Millennials make up 32 % of all U.S. adults , they account for roughly half of American Muslim adults ( 52 % ) .
Majorities in most surveyed countries say global climate change is a major threat to their nation . In fact , it 's seen as the top threat in 13 of 26 surveyed countries , more than any other issue the survey asked about .
Estimated spending by new foreign students at U.S. higher education institutions increased by about 184 % from 2008 to 2016 . In 2016 , foreign students spent an estimated $ 15.5 billion on higher education – a total that includes tuition , room , board and other expenses – compared with $ 5.5 billion in 2008 . Estimated total spending by foreign students at public universities grew by nearly 214 % from 2008 ( $ 2.5 billion ) to 2016 ( $ 7.8 billion ) . Students from China , India and South Korea accounted for more than half ( 54 % ) of all new foreign students pursuing higher education degrees in the U.S. in 2016 . About 108,000 new students were from China , accounting for 30 % of the total . About 66,000 came from India ( 18 % of the total ) , followed by South Korea with about 21,000 foreign students ( 6 % of the total ) .
There are only modest differences in these views across racial and ethnic groups , with about eight-in-ten or more White ( 92 % ) , Black ( 89 % ) and Hispanic voters ( 84 % ) saying that elections in their community will be administered very or somewhat well this November . However , White voters are slightly less likely than either Black voters or Hispanic voters to say that elections across the country will be run and administered well . About two-thirds of Hispanic voters ( 66 % ) and a similar share of Black voters ( 64 % ) say elections in the U.S. will be administered somewhat or very well this November , with about two-in-ten in both groups saying they will be administered very well . Among White voters , 61 % say elections across the country will be administered at least somewhat well , including 13 % who say they will be administered very well . Older voters are more likely than younger voters to say that the November elections will be administered well , both in their communities and in the country as a whole . More than nine-in-ten voters ages 65 and older ( 94 % ) say that the elections in their communities will be administered somewhat or very well , compared with 83 % of voters ages 18 to 29 . And about two-thirds of voters 65 and older ( 68 % ) say elections across the U.S. this November will be administered somewhat or very well , compared with 56 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 57 % of those 30 to 49 .
The public paid less attention to the week 's other major stories . Fewer than one-in-ten cited the issue of immigration ( 8 % ) , the Iraq policy debate ( 7 % ) , the 2008 presidential campaign ( 6 % ) , or the Duke lacrosse case ( 5 % ) as the story they followed most closely last week .
Barack Obama 's job approval rating , currently at 46 % among all registered voters , has fallen substantially since the start of his presidency , across all age groups , Millennials included . In September , 58 % of voters younger than 30 approved of Obama 's job performance , down from 71 % in February 2009 . Yet younger voters remain far more supportive of Obama than any other age group . On balance , far more Millennials continue to approve ( 58 % ) than disapprove ( 33 % ) of the job he is doing . By comparison , voters ages 30 to 49 are divided in their assessments of Obama , and a clear majority of those age 50 and older disapprove of the job Obama is doing .
Data on the age composition of the global refugee population is incomplete , but estimates suggest that the majority of refugees worldwide are children and adolescents below the age of 18 . Consequently , a high share of children and adolescent refugees entering the U.S. each year is consistent with the makeup of refugees worldwide .
The public broadly supports proposals to help homeowners and renters and businesses address economic problems resulting from the coronavirus outbreak . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % each ) – including large majorities in both parties – support aid for these groups .
Voters are increasingly troubled by what they see as the media 's unfair treatment of the candidates . While a majority ( 56 % ) view press coverage of Bush 's campaign as fair , four-in-ten think it was unfair , up from 30 % four years ago . Significantly more voters ( 65 % ) believe the press was fair in its coverage of the Kerry campaign . However , a growing minority also views this coverage as unfair ­ 31 % say that now , compared with 24 % who faulted press coverage of Al Gore 's campaign four years ago .
The representation of countries of birth among immigrant eligible voters is different than that among U.S. immigrants overall . For example , immigrant eligible voters born in Mexico account for 16 % of all foreign-born eligible voters , far below their 25 % share among all immigrants living in the U.S. By contrast , immigrant Filipino eligible voters make up 6 % of foreign-born eligible voters but make up 4 % of all U.S. immigrants . These gaps in representation among these immigrant populations reflect differences in naturalization rates .
The public continues to express frustration with the federal government , rather than anger or contentment . A majority of Americans say frustration ( 55 % ) best describes their feeling toward the federal government , while about two-in-ten say they are angry ( 22 % ) ; a similar share ( 19 % ) say they are basically content . Overall , attitudes toward the federal government today are virtually identical to a year ago . In March 2016 , 57 % said they felt frustrated with the federal government , while 21 % said they were angry and 20 % said they were basically content .
As the GOP primary winds down , the party base is getting behind Mitt Romney . Nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Republican and Republican-leaning voters now say that the party will unite solidly behind Romney as the nominee , up from 57 % in February . This matches the 64 % who said the party would unite behind McCain at a comparable point four years ago .
Today , 40 % approve of the government 's collection of telephone and internet data as part of anti-terrorism efforts , while 53 % disapprove . In July , more Americans approved ( 50 % ) than disapproved ( 44 % ) of the program .
Looking ahead , a majority of smart speaker owners also are not seeking more personalization . Different groups of respondents were asked about their desires for the performance of their speakers in the future . In one group , 58 % of smart speaker owners say they would not like their speaker to do a better job of taking their interests and preferences into account in the future , compared with 42 % who would like their speakers to do a better job taking their interests and preferences into account . The second group was asked a more detailed question : whether they would like their speakers to do a better job of taking their interests and preferences into account in the future , even if that meant it would need to collect more personal information about them . Only 33 % say they would appreciate their interests and preferences being taken more into account , even if it meant more personal data collection , while two-thirds ( 66 % ) said they would not like that .
Millennials are the largest living generation by population size ( 79.8 million in 2016 ) , but they trail Baby Boomers and Generation Xers when it comes to the number of households they head . Many Millennials still live under their parents ' roof or are in a college dorm or some other shared living situation . As of 2016 , Millennials ( ages 18 to 35 in 2016 ) headed only 28 million households , many fewer than were headed by Generation X ( ages 36 to 51 in 2016 ) or Baby Boomers ( ages 52 to 70 ) .
For a while it looked like this year 's primaries , driven by high turnout on the Republican side , might eclipse the turnout record set in 2008 , when 30.4 % of voting-age citizens cast ballots . The GOP did indeed have the highest primary turnout since at least 1980 , according to our analysis – 14.8 % , compared with 11 % in 2008 and 9.8 % in 2012 . But turnout fell off markedly after Donald Trump won the May 3 Indiana primary and his two main rivals dropped out of the race . By contrast , the heated battle between Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders engaged Democratic voters for longer . Less than a day before the final five states held their primaries , the Associated Press reported that Clinton already had clinched the nomination . But turnout in the five primaries held June 7 did n't appear to be affected , averaging 14.1 % compared with an average of 14.5 % for the preceding 31 contests . ( The District of Columbia will hold its Democratic primary June 14 , but there likely wo n't be enough voters there to significantly change the nationwide numbers . )
Democrats now hold a 12-point lead ( 52 % to 40 % ) in leaned party identification among those with at least a college degree , up from just a four point gap seen as recently as 2010 ( 48 % to 44 % ) . Much of this advantage has come among adults with post-graduate experience ; currently , 56 % lean Democratic while just 36 % lean Republican . Among those who have received a college degree but have no post-graduate experience , the gap is much narrower : 48 % identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , while 43 % affiliate with the GOP or lean Republican . Back to top
As of September 2010 , 5 % of American adults own an electronic book reader such as a Kindle or Sony Digital Book , up from 2 % of adults the first time the question was asked in April 2009 .
Majorities of Democrats and those who lean to the Democratic Party ( 74 % ) and Republicans and Republican leaners ( 66 % ) say the core ideas of how to prevent the spread of the coronavirus are pretty well understood . Most Democrats ( 83 % ) and Republicans ( 72 % ) also say that it makes sense that some studies on the spread of coronavirus have conflicting advice because the research is constantly improving .
In partisan terms , there is dramatic evidence for a generational divide . Young people today are much more likely to identify or lean Democratic rather than Republican , especially compared with the GenXers and late Baby Boomers who are in their 30s and 40s today . For example , among 18 - 24 year olds in Pew surveys over the past year and a half , fully 51 % say they are Democrats or lean to the Democratic Party ; just 37 % are Republicans or lean to the GOP . By contrast , Republicans match the Democrats among those 40 - 44 years old ( 43 % Republican , 45 % Democrat ) – those Americans who came of age during the Reagan years . In fact , the partisan leanings of DotNets today mirror their parents ' generation – many of whom are in the first half of the Baby Boomer cohort . Among Baby Boomers who came of age during the late 1960s and early 1970s – those roughly ages 50 - 59 now – party identification is nearly the same as among the DotNets : 51 % Democratic or leaning , 38 % Republican .
That included roughly three-quarters or more in Nigeria , Israel , Tunisia , South Korea , Lebanon , Kenya , Mexico and Brazil . Respondents in Turkey and Indonesia were more divided , with 46 % and 44 % of adults , respectively , saying they favored building new factories .
Nearly as many now say they are hearing mostly bad economic news as a mix of good and bad news ( 46 % vs. 50 % ) . As recently as last month , 35 % said they were hearing mostly bad economic news while far more ( 56 % ) said the news was mixed . The proportion hearing mostly good economic news , which has been in the single digits for most of the past three years , stands at just 2 % .
Within its own region , assessments of China 's record vary . A majority of Indonesians ( 56 % ) and roughly half in the Philippines ( 52 % ) say that China respects the personal freedoms of its people . Meanwhile , Japanese ( 85 % ) , Australians ( 81 % ) and South Koreans ( 77 % ) are as negative as publics in Europe and North America in views of the Chinese government 's protection of individual rights . While views on this question have remained relatively consistent across most countries , opinions in the Philippines , Jordan and Russia have shifted in recent years . Views of China as a protector of personal freedoms have risen among Filipinos since 2014 . In addition , for the first time since the question was initially asked in 2008 , majorities in Russia ( 56 % ) and Jordan ( 55 % ) , where Xi has made efforts to improve bilateral relations , say that the Chinese government respects the personal freedoms of its people .
The Muslim share of Europe 's total population has been increasing steadily and will continue to grow in the coming decades . From mid-2010 to mid-2016 alone , the share of Muslims in Europe rose more than 1 percentage point , from 3.8 % to 4.9 % ( from 19.5 million to 25.8 million ) . By 2050 , the share of the continent 's population that is Muslim could more than double , rising to 11.2 % or more , depending on how much migration is allowed into Europe . Even in the unlikely event that future migration is permanently halted , the Muslim population still would rise to an estimated 7.4 % , due to the relative youth and high fertility rates of Europe 's current Muslim residents .
Another interesting historical trend is how opinions have evolved across generational groups . Namely , Baby Boomers ' support for marijuana legalization peaked in the late 1970s , before plummeting in the 1980s during the nation 's `` War on Drugs '' era . But today , Boomers ' support for legalizing marijuana is greater than it was four decades ago . Even within the last decade , Millennials have shifted . In 2006 , just 34 % of Millennials favored the legal use of marijuana ; by 2014 , that share had risen to 69 % .
For instance , majorities of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 89 % ) and Republicans and Republican leaners ( 83 % ) say it is important to increase the number of judges handling asylum cases . However , a larger share of Democrats ( 58 % ) than Republicans ( 45 % ) rate this as very important . On other dimensions as well , there are pronounced partisan differences in the intensity of sentiment . For example , majorities in each party say it is at least somewhat important that asylum seekers are provided safe and sanitary conditions once they arrive in the U.S. ( 91 % of Democrats , 73 % of Republicans ) .
The EPA also suggests that people consider carpooling , mass transit , working from home or other alternatives to driving to and from work solo . But driving alone remains by far the most common commuting method : About three-quarters of Americans reported last year that that was their main commuting mode , a figure that 's changed little since 2000 . ( The share of solo-driving commuters actually has increased since 1980 . ) The percentage of commuters who carpool has fallen by more than half , from 19.7 % in 1980 to 9.2 % last year . Also , a modest increase in telecommuting has n't been enough to make solo driving any less dominant .
Americans continue to mostly say these long-term shifts are neither good nor bad for the country . However , the share that views the long-term growth of racial and ethnic diversity as good for the U.S. is higher than it was in 2016 . Currently , 64 % of U.S. adults say the prospect of a nation in the next 25 to 30 years in which Black Americans , Latinos and Asian Americans make up a majority of the population is neither good nor bad for the country . Nearly a quarter ( 24 % ) say this is a good thing , while fewer than half as many ( 11 % ) say it is bad , according to a national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted July 27-Aug. 2 among 11,001 adults . ( The survey question did not include all racial and ethnic groups , such as Native Hawaiians , Pacific Islanders , American Indians and Alaska Natives , or multiracial Americans , in its wording about the nation 's future diversity . ) While these views have changed little since 2018 , the public expresses more positive – and less negative – views of the long-term rise in racial and ethnic diversity than it did four years ago , during the last presidential campaign . Since then , the share saying a majority Black , Hispanic and Asian population is a good thing has increased by 10 percentage points , while there has been a comparable decline ( 11 points ) in the share saying it is bad thing .
With the news today that Japan 's 39-year-old Princess Kiko has given birth to a male heir , a succession crisis has apparently been averted . A 1947 law dictates that only a male can ascend to the Chrysanthemum Throne , but there had been no princes born to the royal family since 1965 , leading many to call for changing the law so a female — most likely four-year-old Princess Aiko — could eventually rule . The results of a recent Pew Global Attitudes survey show that the Japanese public was ready for just such a change : 76 % would have favored amending the Imperial Household Act to allow a female to take the throne .
Aside from gas prices , news about the Iraq war continued to draw considerable public interest . A third followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely , while 23 % said it was the story they followed most closely . In addition , 30 % paid very close attention to the debate in Washington over U.S. policy in Iraq , and 10 % said this was the story they followed most closely . More than a quarter of the public paid very close attention to the debate in Congress over new immigration policy , and 12 % listed this as their top story . Hispanics followed this story slightly more closely than did non-Hispanics ( 34 % vs. 26 % very closely ) . Republicans and Democrats followed the story in roughly equal proportions . The media devoted 10 % of its coverage overall to the immigration debate , putting it on a par with the Iraq policy debate and events on the ground in Iraq . The 2008 presidential campaign drew very close attention from 22 % of the public . This was the fourth-ranked story in terms of public interest . The national news media devoted 6 % of its coverage for the week to the campaign . The bulk of the coverage was on television and radio . The campaign was not a top ten story last week for newspapers or online news sources . The recent violence in Lebanon between militant groups and the Lebanese army received as much news coverage as the presidential campaign and more coverage than rising gas prices ( 6 % overall ) . This was the second most covered story online , with online sources devoting 15 % of their coverage to the conflict . However , the public paid relatively little attention to the events in Lebanon ; just 15 % followed the story very closely and 2 % said it was the story they followed most closely last week .
The global economic crisis had a powerful effect across much of Central and Eastern Europe , and it hit especially hard in Hungary , which was forced to seek a financial bailout from the IMF , World Bank and European Union . The fall 2009 survey revealed the extent of Hungarian economic gloom : 94 % described the country 's economy as bad , nosing out Lithuania ( 93 % ) and Ukraine ( 91 % ) for the most negative assessment among the countries included in the poll .
This is a modest change from February , when 50 % said Islam was no more likely to encourage violence than others and 38 % said it was more likely . Since 2003 , opinions on the question roughly have been split . Republicans continue to be more likely than Democrats to say Islam encourages violence among its believers , and the partisan gap has grown over time . Currently , 60 % of Republicans say Islam is more likely than other religions to encourage violence , compared with 39 % of independents and 35 % of Democrats .
Mexico has recently experienced increased immigration from Central America , and the Mexican government apprehended nearly 92,000 migrants in the first seven months of fiscal 2019 . Against this backdrop , around half ( 48 % ) of Mexicans gave unfavorable ratings to Central Americans fleeing to Mexico . Younger people had more favorable views of Central American migrants in Mexico than those 50 and older . Regardless of gender , income or level of education , Mexicans tended to be slightly more negative than positive . Colombia has received more than 1 million Venezuelan immigrants in recent years since political and economic unrest began escalating under current Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro . Amid this influx , more than half of Colombian adults ( 54 % ) said they held an unfavorable view of migrants in Colombia ; 42 % had a favorable opinion . Younger Colombians were more likely than their older counterparts to have favorable views of people from other countries who live in Colombia .
In Turkey , where a longstanding ban on head scarves in schools and public buildings has come under increasing attack from Muslim activists , 64 % of the public calls such a ban a bad idea compared with 29 % who view it as a good idea . Lebanon weighs in against head scarf bans by 59 % opposed to 29 % in favor , while even larger majorities in Jordan ( 97 % ) , Indonesia ( 95 % ) , Morocco ( 90 % ) and Pakistan ( 77 % ) call them a bad idea .
For many users , social media is part of their daily routine . Roughly three-quarters of Facebook users – and around six-in-ten Instagram users – visit these sites at least once a day .
Unlike in the U.S. , people in other countries mostly say their own country has done a good job dealing with the outbreak . Around half of Americans ( 52 % ) say the country has done a bad job responding to the COVID-19 pandemic , while a similar share ( 47 % ) say the response has been good , according to a survey in the U.S. and 13 other countries this summer . People in most of the surveyed nations are far more likely to see their country 's response positively than negatively . In neighboring Canada , for example , 88 % of adults say their country has done a good job , while just 11 % say it has done a bad job . The balance of opinion is similar in Germany , the Netherlands and South Korea . But public sentiment is not positive everywhere . In the United Kingdom , 54 % of adults say their country has done a bad job handling COVID-19 , while 46 % say it has done a good job . People in Spain are also fairly closely divided : A little over half ( 54 % ) say the country has done a good job responding to COVID-19 , while 47 % say the response has been bad .
Voters find the debates useful , but not determinative . Post-election surveys conducted by Pew Research Center since 1988 have found that , in most cases , three-fifths or more of voters say the debates were very or somewhat helpful in deciding which candidate to vote for . The high point was 1992 , when 70 % of voters said the three three-way debates that year between Bill Clinton , George H.W . Bush and Ross Perot were at least somewhat helpful .
Around 337,000 immigrants were deported from the U.S. in fiscal 2018 , up since 2017 . Overall , the Obama administration deported about 3 million immigrants between 2009 and 2016 , a significantly higher number than the 2 million immigrants deported by the Bush administration between 2001 and 2008 . In 2017 , the Trump administration deported 295,000 immigrants , the lowest total since 2006 . Immigrants convicted of a crime made up the less than half of deportations in 2018 , the most recent year for which statistics by criminal status are available . Of the 337,000 immigrants deported in 2018 , some 44 % had criminal convictions and 56 % were not convicted of a crime . From 2001 to 2018 , a majority ( 60 % ) of immigrants deported have not been convicted of a crime .
Americans ' views of Russia are now at their lowest point in more than a decade . The 18 % of Americans who today have a positive view of Russia is far lower than the 44 % who expressed a favorable opinion when the question was first asked in 2007 . Russians ' views of the United States , meanwhile , briefly spiked following the election of Donald Trump , but positive sentiments have since declined . Only about three-in-ten Russians ( 29 % ) have a favorable opinion of the U.S. today .
The Pew Research Center 's latest national survey , conducted July 17 - 21 , 2013 , among 1,480 adults , including 497 Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters , finds broad dissatisfaction among GOP voters with the party 's positions on a number of issues . And while the general sentiment is that the party should commit to more conservative positions , two issues stand out . On abortion and gay marriage about as many Republicans want the party to move in a more moderate direction as support a more conservative stance . Most Republicans also feel change is needed on two other issues – immigration and government spending – and on both the balance of opinion tilts toward taking a more conservative approach . On immigration , more Republicans say the party is not conservative enough than say it is too conservative , by roughly two-to-one . That margin is about four-to-one when it comes to the party 's position on government spending . Among five issues tested , on only one – gun policy – do a majority of voters say the party 's position is about right .
Americans are especially likely to say they would benefit from improvements in the services they use to go online . Seven-in-ten cellphone users ( 70 % ) say they would benefit from an unlimited data plan , with 50 % saying they would benefit a lot . And nearly three-quarters of home internet users ( 72 % ) say having more reliable service would help them gather information for decisions , with 48 % saying it would help them a lot .
In the survey , conducted in France and 14 other Western European countries , the Center asked whether people agreed or disagreed with two strongly worded negative statements : `` Jews always pursue their own interests and not the interest of the country they live in , '' and `` Jews always overstate how much they have suffered . '' Roughly seven-in-ten or more French respondents either completely or mostly disagreed with these statements , while about one-in-five completely or mostly agreed with them .
Here , too , there are differences in views by party and age . Fully 68 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents think there has been too much media coverage of demonstrations , while 18 % think the amount of coverage has been about right and 11 % say there has been too little coverage . By contrast , 43 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners think there has been the right amount of coverage , 29 % think there has been too little and 26 % say there has been too much media coverage of demonstrations these days .
When it comes to technology 's influence on America 's young adults , reading is not dead – at least not the news . When asked whether one prefers to read , watch or listen to their news , younger adults are far more likely than older ones to opt for text , and most of that reading takes place on the web . Overall , more Americans prefer to watch their news ( 46 % ) than to read it ( 35 % ) or listen to it ( 17 % ) , a Pew Research Center survey found earlier this year . But that varies dramatically by age . Those ages 50 and older are far more likely to prefer watching news over any other method : About half ( 52 % ) of 50- to 64-year-olds and 58 % of those 65 and older would rather watch the news , while roughly three-in-ten ( 29 % and 27 % , respectively ) prefer to read it . Among those under 50 , on the other hand , roughly equal portions – about four-in-ten of those ages 18 - 29 and ages 30 - 49 – opt to read their news as opt to watch it . Most of that reading among younger adults is through digital text rather than print . About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) of 18- to 29-year-olds who prefer to read their news also prefer to get their news online ; just 10 % choose a print newspaper . The breakdown among 30- to 49-year-olds is similar . News readers who are ages 50 - 64 , on the other hand , are more evenly split between a preference for the web ( 41 % ) and print paper ( 40 % ) , while those 65 and older mostly still turn to the print paper ( 63 % ) .
In the high-stakes battle over replacing Justice Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court , a majority of Americans ( 56 % ) say the Senate should hold hearings and vote on President Obama 's choice to fill the vacancy . About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say the Senate should not hold hearings until the next president selects a court nominee .
The public 's take on the chances that health care legislation will be enacted this year shifted dramatically after Brown 's Jan. 19 victory , which will end the Democrats ' effective control of 60 Senate seats and their ability to stop Republican filibusters . About two-thirds ( 67 % ) now say they do not think a health care reform bill will be passed into law this year , while 27 % say they think it will , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted Jan. 22 - 25 among 1,010 adults nationwide by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . This is a reversal from the previous week 's News Interest Index survey when 57 % said they thought legislation would pass this year , while 33 % said it would not .
Environmental protection draws more support in principle than when the issue of potential costs is raised . Among the public , 71 % said the country `` should do whatever it takes to protect the environment , '' according to a January-March 2014 survey . But a smaller majority ( 56 % ) said `` stricter environmental laws and regulations are worth the cost . '' Nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) said tougher environmental laws and regulations cost too many jobs and hurt the economy . There are sharp partisan divides on these questions . Democrats overwhelmingly , by eight-to-one , said that the country should do whatever it takes to safeguard the environment while Republicans are almost evenly divided . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Democrats believe stricter environmental laws are worth the cost compared with just 37 % of Republicans . Nearly six-in-ten Republicans ( 59 % ) said stricter environmental laws and regulations have a negative economic impact .
The nomination of John Brennan to head the Central Intelligence Agency is expected to renew focus on the U.S. use of drones against suspected militants at his Senate confirmation hearing on February 7 . A majority ( 62 % ) of the U.S. public approves of drone strikes , but outside of the United States , there is considerable opposition among most nations surveyed by the Pew Research Center . Last spring , Pew Research surveyed the public in 20 countries around the world and found that in 17 of them , more than half disapproved of the U.S. conducting drone strikes to target extremists in places such as Pakistan , Yemen and Somalia . The policy was particularly unpopular in majority Muslim nations , but it also faced disapproval in Europe and other regions as well . Disapproval is strongest in Greece ( 90 % ) , Egypt ( 89 % ) , Jordan ( 85 % ) , Turkey ( 81 % ) , Spain ( 76 % ) , Brazil ( 76 % ) and Japan ( 75 % ) . The only countries in the survey , aside from the U.S. , where opposition to the drone campaigns was muted were Britain , where the public was almost evenly divided ( 44 % approve , 47 % disapprove ) and India , where 32 % approved and 21 % disapproved , but nearly half ( 47 % ) had no opinion .
The Center 's 2019 survey found that sizable majorities of Nigerians expressed positive views toward China on a variety of economic issues : 83 % said China 's growing economy is a good thing for their country , while a comparable share ( 82 % ) said Chinese investment is a good thing because it creates jobs in their country . In both cases , these shares were the highest out of the 11 emerging economies surveyed by the Center in 2019 . While Nigerians who live close to the Chinese railway project expressed more positive attitudes toward China after the project was completed , there was no consistent relationship between people 's distance to the project and other China-related questions in the Center 's survey , such as views toward China 's growing economy , its increasingly powerful military or Chinese President Xi Jinping .
With so much public attention focused on the oil leak , only small percentages say they followed any of the other top stories most closely last week . Just 10 % say this about the second ranked story , news about the economy . Fewer name the World Cup soccer tournament in South Africa ( 6 % ) , the situation and events in Afghanistan ( 3 % ) , drug-related violence in Mexico ( 2 % ) or ethnic violence in Kyrgyzstan ( 1 % ) . Similar patterns are seen in news coverage . The oil leak accounted for 44 % of the newshole , far surpassing coverage of the economy ( 7 % ) and Afghanistan ( 5 % ) . Drug-related violence in Mexico consumed less than 1 % of all news coverage .
Currently , 60 % of Republicans rate their personal financial situation as good or excellent , compared with 45 % of independents and 40 % of Democrats . Majorities in all three groups feel their finances will improve over the next year ; 70 % of Republicans expect their personal finance to improve a lot or some over the next year , compared with 61 % of independents and 59 % of Democrats .
While a majority of Americans say feminism has had a positive impact on the lives of white , Black and Hispanic women , more say feminism has helped White women a lot . About three-in-ten U.S. adults say feminism has helped the lives of white women ( 32 % ) , About three-in-ten U.S. adults say feminism has helped the lives a white women a lot , compared with 21 % and 15 % who say this about Black women and Hispanic women , respectively .
The Latino population 's growth is now driven by the children and grandchildren of immigrants . This has been true since 2000 and has started to change the composition of the Latino population as the share foreign born has begun to decline . For example , among Latinos younger than 18 , 93 % were born in the U.S .
This survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet Project was underwritten by Carnegie Mellon University . The findings in this report are based on data from telephone interviews conducted by Princeton Survey Research Associates International from July 11 - 14 , among a sample of 1,002 adults ages 18 and older . Telephone interviews were conducted in English by landline and cell phone . For results based on the total sample , one can say with 95 % confidence that the error attributable to sampling is plus or minus 3.4 percentage points and for the results from 792 internet and smartphone users in the sample , the margin of error is 3.8 percentage points . More information is available in the Methods section at the end of this report . Beyond their general hope that they can go online anonymously , the majority of internet users have tried to avoid observation by other people , groups , companies , and government agencies . Hackers , criminals and advertisers are at the top of the list of groups people wish to avoid .
Using a separate measure , 38 % of Americans say they followed news about the economy very closely , while 33 % say they followed the debate over health care reform very closely and 30 % say they tracked the Winter Olympics very closely . Smaller percentages say they very closely followed the plane crash at the IRS offices in Austin ( 26 % ) , the U.S. military effort in Afghanistan ( 24 % ) and the release of some of the U.S. missionaries accused of kidnapping Haitian children ( 16 % ) .
As of this month , 56 % of all Americans say they are following Trump 's statements either very closely ( 22 % ) or fairly closely ( 35 % ) . But that is down considerably from the 70 % in June who were following Trump either very closely ( 29 % ) or fairly closely ( 41 % ) .
As the number of unauthorized immigrants shrank by 14 % from 2007 to 2017 , the U.S. lawful immigrant population continued to grow . During this period , the population of lawful U.S. immigrants – citizens and noncitizens , on permanent and temporary visas – rose by almost a quarter , to 35.2 million . Unauthorized immigrants were 23 % of the 45.6 million foreign-born residents in the U.S. in 2017 .
The public 's top two sources of news remain television and the internet . Two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) say television is where they get most of their news about national and international events , while 43 % say they turn to the internet . About three-in-ten Americans ( 31 % ) say they get most of their national and international news from newspapers . Radio was a distant fourth choice , with 19 % saying they turned to it for news . ( People were allowed to name up to two sources ) .
In 17 countries , majorities or pluralities say they have confidence in neither Trump nor Xi to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs . This includes nine of the 10 European nations in the survey and all three Latin American publics surveyed . This pattern is especially strong in Spain , France and Brazil , where about six-in-ten or more lack faith in both leaders .
With their party engaged in the early stages of a battle for the nomination , Republicans are now following election news more closely than are Democrats or independents . Looking at monthly averages , 32 % of Republicans followed campaign news very closely each week in September . That drops to 22 % among Democrats and 21 % among independents . Republicans followed news about the candidates much more closely this September than they did in September 2007 ( 32 % vs. 18 % very closely ) . On the other hand , Democrats were more attentive four years ago as Clinton and Obama fought for the nomination . In September 2007 , nearly three-in-ten Democrats ( 28 % ) said they were following news about the candidates very closely , compared with 22 % in September 2011 . Interest among independents is comparable to four years ago ( 21 % now vs. 18 % in 2007 ) .
About three-quarters of Democrats ( 74 % ) hold the view that homosexuality should be accepted , up from 59 % in 2006 . Though slightly fewer independents say the same , they have closely mirrored Democrats on this question over the past decade . Today , two-thirds of independents say homosexuality should be accepted by society , while 25 % say it should be discouraged . Just about half of Republicans ( 48 % ) now say homosexuality should be accepted , a number that has ticked up 15 points from its low 10 years ago . Republicans today are somewhat more likely than they were a year ago to say homosexuality should be accepted by society . Up until a year ago , a majority of Republicans thought homosexuality should be discouraged by society , but views have since become more mixed . While 41 % of Republicans now say homosexuality should be discouraged , 48 % think it should be accepted by society .
When asked to name the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week , 42 % of the public listed either reports about the economy ( 24 % ) or changes in the stock market ( 18 % ) . In addition , many Americans were following news about the falling price of gas and oil – 53 % followed this story very closely and 11 % listed this as their most closely followed news story of the week . With 38 % of the public saying the presidential campaign was their most closely followed story last week , interest in economic news just edged out interest in the election . At the same time , the media clearly shifted its focus away from the economic crisis and back to the campaign . According to the Pew 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , 51 % of the national newshole last week was devoted to the presidential campaign , while 23 % of the newshole focused on the economy . Cable television news focused heavily on the campaign , with 80 % of its coverage going to election news and only 12 % to economic news .
A majority of Democrats at various income levels support government subsidies for broadband , but there are significant differences among Republicans based on income . For example , 42 % of Republicans and Republican leaners with an annual household income of less than $ 30,000 support broadband subsidies for lower-income Americans . But that figure falls to just 10 % among Republicans from households earning $ 75,000 or more a year . Overall , however , Republicans at all income levels are less likely to support broadband subsidies than Democrats of comparable incomes .
With the general election less than five months away , a larger share of registered voters say they would vote for Joe Biden than Donald Trump ( 54 % vs. 44 % ) if the election were held today . For the most part , the demographic patterns in candidate preferences from the 2016 elections are evident today . ( See this study for a detailed analysis of the 2016 electorate , based on validated voters . )
Still , Republican men do stand out . Just 45 % of Republican men say online harassment is a major problem , compared with around six-in-ten or more Republican women , Democratic men and Democratic women . And Republican men are also less likely than Republican women , Democratic men and Democratic women to say offensive content online is too often excused as not a big deal and to prioritize creating safe and welcoming online environments .
Moreover , digital technology has become so central to teens ' lives that a significant share of parents now employ a new tool to enforce family rules : `` digitally grounding '' misbehaving kids . Some 65 % of parents have taken their teen 's cellphone or internet privileges away as a punishment . But restrictions to screen time are not always consequences of bad behavior , parents often have rules in place about how often and when their teen can go online . Some 55 % of parents say they limit the amount of time or times of day their teen can be online .
Views of labor unions have fluctuated modestly over the past two decades , but have become more positive than they were during the Great Recession .
Favorable opinions of both business corporations and labor unions have rebounded from record lows reached in the summer of 2011 . Overall , more Americans now hold a favorable ( 55 % ) than an unfavorable ( 39 % ) view of business corporations ; two years ago , opinion was reversed ( 52 % unfavorable , 38 % favorable ) . Similarly , views of labor unions have returned to positive territory , with 51 % holding a favorable view and 42 % holding an unfavorable view – far better ratings than the 46 % unfavorable/41 % favorable balance of opinion registered in 2011 . Public views of business corporations and labor unions , which had mostly been in positive territory from the 1980s through the early 2000s , turned less favorable during the economic recession . And in August 2011 , amid fears of a new economic downturn and widespread dissatisfaction with national conditions , favorable ratings for business and labor hit all-time lows . Since then , favorable opinions of business corporations have increased 17 points and positive views of labor unions have risen 10 points .
Roughly half of Americans or more were able to correctly identify whether three of the six sources do their own reporting : ABC News ( 56 % ) , The Wall Street Journal ( 52 % ) and Facebook ( 51 % ) . At the same time , though , fewer than four-in-ten were able to correctly answer whether Google News ( 31 % ) , Apple News ( 26 % ) or HuffPost ( 23 % ) do their own news reporting . ( The survey was conducted before BuzzFeed acquired HuffPost . )
As Election Day nears , more Republicans feel favorably toward their party . As in past cycles , Republicans ' ratings of their own party have grown more favorable as the campaign nears its end . About eight-in-ten Republicans ( 82 % ) now say they have a favorable view of the GOP . This positive outlook is up from earlier this year , when the share who rated the party favorably dipped . In June , 69 % of Republicans had a favorable opinion , while 28 % rated the GOP unfavorably .
A 2020 Pew Research Center survey asked respondents about their confidence in certain groups and institutions to act in the best interests of the public . Out of the 10 groups and institutions included in the survey , Americans are most likely to express confidence in medical scientists , scientists and the military .
As Mexico prepares to host the fifth round of negotiations over the 23-year-old North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) , most Americans ( 56 % ) say that the pact is good for the United States , while just a third ( 33 % ) say it is bad . More than half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents have a negative view of NAFTA : 54 % say the agreement is bad for the U.S. , compared with 35 % who say it is good . Democratic views are highly positive : 72 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say NAFTA is good for the U.S. , while just 18 % think it is bad for the country . Views of NAFTA are more positive than negative across most demographic groups . Assessments are especially positive among those with a postgraduate degree ( 70 % good for U.S. ) and adults ages 18 to 29 ( 69 % ) .
About a third ( 35 % ) say they very closely followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy , while 21 % say they very closely followed news about J.P. Morgan losing $ 2 billion or more in high risk trading . Another 15 % say they very closely followed news about political and economic uncertainty in Greece . Comparable numbers say the J.P Morgan losses ( 7 % ) and the situation in Greece ( 6 % ) was their top story . According to PEJ , coverage of the U.S. economy and J.P. Morgan 's woes together accounted for 14 % of the newshole , while the economic troubles in Europe accounted for another 5 % . About one-in-ten ( 8 % ) say their top story of the week was Facebook 's initial public stock offering ; 14 % say they followed this news very closely . With the start of trading last Friday , news about the stock offering accounted for 5 % of coverage . Overall , 15 % say they very closely followed news about census data that show the number of minority births in the U.S. topped the number of white births last year ; 4 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about this demographic shift accounted for 2 % of coverage .
Cell phone ownership has remained stable over the last year , but users are taking advantage of a much wider range of their phones ' capabilities compared with a similar point in 2009 . Of the eight mobile data applications we asked about in both 2009 and 2010 , all showed statistically significant year-to-year growth .
While the 2010 midterm congressional elections dominated media coverage last week , the public focused more on news about the nation 's struggling economy . Nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) of the public says they followed news about the economy more closely than any other major story . Just 6 % say they followed news about this year 's congressional elections most closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey of 1,010 adults conducted Sept. 23 - 26 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The midterm election campaign accounted for 25 % of news coverage , almost double the 13 % given to news about the economy , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
The public is highly critical of the way the government is dealing with asylum seekers . While there are clear partisan differences in these views , a sizable minority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 44 % ) say the government is doing a bad job in dealing with the increased number of asylum seekers at the border ; 55 % say the government is doing a good job .
The 2012 campaign has gotten off to a much slower start when compared with the previous presidential election campaign . At a comparable point in early 2007 , 8 % of all news coverage was devoted to the campaign and 13 % said it was the story they were following most closely .
The battle for independent voters remains tight . The current survey finds that 45 % of independents back Romney and 43 % Obama , which is virtually unchanged from earlier in July . Over the course of the year , independent support has wavered , with neither candidate holding a consistent advantage .
With respect to the rate of home broadband adoption , a lot has been accomplished in a relatively short time . According to the Pew Internet Project 's February 2007 survey , 47 % of American adults have broadband at home , nearly double the 24 % penetration level of three years earlier . With home broadband penetration poised to surpass 50 % this year , it will have taken 9 years from the time the service became widely available for home high-speed to reach half the population . To put this in context , it took 10 years for the compact disc player to reach 50 % of consumers , 15 years for cell phones , and 18 years for color TV . Each of those technologies , like broadband , represented an upgrade from a good or service with which most consumers had experience .
The protests in Turkey were covered extensively in social media , but for the Turkish people , traditional media sources were the most common ways of accessing news about the events . Around nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) got information about the protests from national TV , with 78 % citing international or satellite TV and 73 % utilizing newspapers . Roughly half ( 49 % ) say they accessed social networking sites for news about the protests , with a nearly equal number ( 46 % ) saying they did not use these non-traditional sources . Radio was also less popular than TV and newspapers . Only 31 % say they obtained information about the protests from online news groups , blogs or photo sites .
How effective will the internet be for this job ? Results from a mid-2012 survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet Project show that 21 % of the uninsured are not internet users themselves . The poll showed that , overall , 18 % of American adults are uninsured , a figure that is in line with other surveys done at the Pew Research Center and other organizations .
About a quarter ( 25.4 % ) of U.S. adults identify with evangelical Protestantism , according to Pew Research Center 's 2014 Religious Landscape Study . In that survey , evangelical Protestants are identified mainly on the basis of their affiliation with evangelical denominations ( such as the Southern Baptist Convention , the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod or the Presbyterian Church in America , to name just a few ) or with nondenominational evangelical churches . Evangelical Protestantism is the nation 's single largest religious group , exceeding the size of the nation 's Catholic ( 20.8 % ) , mainline Protestant ( 14.7 % ) and religiously unaffiliated ( 22.8 % ) populations . The evangelical Protestant share of the population has dipped slightly in recent years ( from 26.3 % in 2007 to 25.4 % in 2014 ) , but more slowly than the mainline Protestant and Catholic populations . Though the percentage of Americans who identify with evangelical Protestant denominations has ticked downward , the absolute number of evangelicals appears to be rising as the overall U.S. population grows . In 2014 , there were roughly 62.2 million evangelical Protestant adults , up from about 59.8 million in 2007 .
Opinion of China has fallen across most generations – but younger adults remain more positive than others . Across generations , only minorities today say they have a favorable view of China – down substantially since the question was first asked in 2005 . But Millennials ( 32 % ) see the country in a more positive light than do Gen Xers ( 23 % ) or Boomers ( 21 % ) .
Public confidence in Trump on most key issues remains mixed , though a narrow majority ( 54 % ) now say they are either very or somewhat confident in him to negotiate favorable trade agreements with other countries . This is the first measure in Pew Research Center surveys on which significantly more say they are at least somewhat confident in Trump than say they are not too or not at all confident ( 54 % vs. 44 % ) .
Pessimism and disaffection are widespread among Italians ahead of the country 's general election on Sunday . In a Pew Research Center survey conducted last fall , 82 % of Italians said they distrust parliament and an equal share said the national economic situation is bad . About three-quarters ( 77 % ) said politicians do n't care what people like them think , including 59 % who felt that way strongly .
For example , a little less than half ( 46 % ) of U.S. adults who attend services at least once a month say sex between unmarried adults in a committed relationship is sometimes or always acceptable , compared with three-quarters ( 74 % ) of those who go less often . And about one-third ( 35 % ) of those who go to religious services at least monthly say casual sex is sometimes or always acceptable , compared with three-quarters ( 75 % ) of those who attend less frequently .
Clinton backers are solidly opposed regardless of strength of support for her candidacy . Fully 88 % of Clinton supporters express opposition , compared with 10 % who are in favor of a wall along the entire border with Mexico .
Last year , 84,000 people left Puerto Rico for the U.S. mainland , a 38 % increase from 2010 , according to the analysis of American Community Survey data . At the same time , the number of people moving to Puerto Rico from the U.S. mainland declined , resulting in Puerto Rico having a net population loss to the mainland of 64,000 in 2014 , more than double the net loss of 26,000 in 2010 . The island 's declining population is not a new trend . Indeed , Puerto Rico has been experiencing a net population loss since at least 2005 , a year before its recession began . However , the trend has been accelerating since 2010 as the U.S. mainland 's economy has rebounded from the Great Recession even as the island 's economy has remained mired in a recession . More recently , the Puerto Rican government has seen its tax revenues decline and , barred by U.S. law from filing for bankruptcy , it may run out of cash in November . The continued loss of people , particularly school-aged children and those in their prime working age , has only worsened the island 's economic situation and outlook .
Hurricane Irene was the public 's top news story last week in a busy seven days that included an unusual and widely-felt East Coast earthquake and major developments in Libya . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say that Irene was the news story they followed most closely last week , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Aug. 25 - 28 among 1,010 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The hurricane made landfall in North Carolina on Saturday while the survey was in the field . Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed news about the nation 's struggling economy most closely , while 9 % say their top story was the Virginia earthquake that rattled nerves across much of the East Coast . With such big stories on the domestic front , the dramatic events in Libya garnered less public attention . Early in the week , the media heavily covered the advance by rebel forces into Tripoli and the taking of Moammar Gadhafi 's compound . Just 5 % of the public says this was the news they followed most closely . And only one-in-five ( 22 % ) say they paid very close attention to developments there . For the full week , developments in Libya – including the apparent disappearance of Gadhafi – accounted for 25 % of coverage , while Hurricane Irene made up 21 % , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . The hurricane , though , proved to be the top story for the week on network news ( 33 % ) and cable television ( 30 % ) .
Majorities in most of the 33 non-U.S. countries surveyed disapprove of the U.S. increasing tariffs on imported goods from other countries ( median 68 % disapproval ) , its withdrawal from international climate change agreements ( 66 % ) , and its construction of a wall on the border between the U.S. and Mexico ( 60 % ) . Trump 's position of allowing fewer immigrants into the U.S. and his administration 's withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal also are met with negativity : Across all countries surveyed , medians of 55 % and 52 % , respectively , disapprove of these steps .
In Brazil – home to the world 's largest Catholic population and most of the Amazon rainforest – a majority of Catholics ( 56 % ) were in favor of allowing priests to marry . In other countries represented at the Amazon synod , support ranged from 53 % in Venezuela and 48 % in Colombia to 29 % in Ecuador and 28 % in Peru .
President Bush 's job approval rating has fallen , and his personal favorability is down significantly as well , leading many Republicans to worry about the impact a weakened president will have on his party 's showing in the fall mid-term elections . Even among one of the president 's most supportive constituencies , white evangelical Protestants , Mr. Bush has suffered declines . Given the importance of evangelicals for the electoral successes of the Republican Party over the past several years , how serious is Bush 's slump among this key voter group for the party 's prospects this fall ? A new analysis by the Pew Research Center finds that while the president still has the support of a majority of white evangelical Protestants , significantly fewer of them now approve of his performance in office ( 55 % approve , 38 % disapprove ) than was true at the start of his second term when 72 % approved and only 22 % disapproved . Indeed , since he began his second term in office , Bush 's approval rating has declined as much among white evangelicals as among the public as a whole . In addition , his personal ratings among evangelicals are also now more negative than ever before – 35 % now have an unfavorable view of Bush , compared with 21 % of registered evangelical voters in October 2004 . Moreover , 45 % of evangelicals agreed with the statement that `` I am tired of all the problems associated with the Bush administration '' – less than a majority but a sizable number nonetheless .
A 2013 Pew Research Center survey of Hispanic adults finds that about half of Cuban adults ( 49 % ) identify themselves as Catholic . Roughly two-in-ten ( 17 % ) Cubans are Protestant , and among all Cubans , 8 % are mainline Protestants and 8 % are evangelical Protestants . About one-quarter ( 26 % ) of Cuban adults are religiously unaffiliated . In contrast , among all Hispanics 55 % identify as Catholic , 22 % identify as Protestant , and about two-in-ten ( 18 % ) are unaffiliated .
The hierarchy of issues that voters rate as most important has changed little over the past few election cycles . About eight-in-ten registered voters ( 83 % ) say the economy will be very important in their voting decisions while about seven-in-ten view health care ( 73 % ) and terrorism ( 71 % ) as very important .
The percentage of Americans saying there is solid evidence of global warming has steadily increased over the past few years . Currently , 67 % say there is solid evidence that the earth 's average temperature has been getting warmer over the past few decades , up four points since last year and 10 points since 2009 . Similarly , an increasing proportion say that the rise in the earth 's temperature has mostly been caused by human activity . Currently , 42 % say the warming is mostly caused by human activity , such as burning fossil fuels , while 19 % say it is mostly caused by natural patterns in the earth 's environment . Last year , 38 % mostly attributed global warming to human activity and in 2010 34 % did so .
But Democrats are more likely than Republicans to support increased spending for scientific research . Around six-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 62 % ) favor this now , up from 46 % in 2013 . Four-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners support increased spending for scientific research today , up from 25 % six years ago . The partisan gap in views of spending for scientific research has grown over the long term . In 2001 , there was no significant divide between the parties . In subsequent years , Republican support trended steadily downward before going up more recently . Democratic support remained relatively steady for more than a decade before rising significantly in a 2017 survey . The partisan gap in support for more federal spending on scientific research was 16 percentage points in 2011 ; it grew to 27 points in 2017 and now stands at 22 points .
Al Qaeda gets negative marks in all 14 countries surveyed . Strong majorities in most countries have unfavorable opinions of the group , founded by Osama bin Laden more than a quarter century ago . In no nation do more than a quarter say they have a favorable view of the international terrorist organization . Anti-al Qaeda sentiment is strongest in Israel and Lebanon . This opinion is shared by Christians and Muslims alike in Lebanon – and by Arabs and Jews in Israel . Meanwhile , eight-in-ten or more in Turkey , Jordan and Egypt have an unfavorable opinion of the group responsible for the 9/11 attacks , as well as many other terrorist campaigns in the Middle East and elsewhere . Roughly three-quarters in Tunisia ( 74 % ) and six-in-ten in the Palestinian territories ( 59 % ) also have a negative view of al Qaeda . While a quarter of Palestinians have a favorable view of al Qaeda , support is down nine percentage points since 2013 . In Asia , 66 % in Bangladesh and 56 % in Indonesia have negative opinions of al Qaeda . Roughly four-in-ten in Pakistan and 32 % in Malaysia also see the group unfavorably , but many in these countries offer no opinion .
Over the same period , the gap in cellphone ownership between Latinos and other groups either diminished or disappeared . In 2012 , 86 % of Latinos said they owned a cellphone , up from 76 % in 2009 . When it comes to owning a smartphone , going online from a mobile device and using social networking sites , Latinos are just as connected as other Americans . According to the Pew Research analysis : While Latinos use mobile and social networking technologies at rates similar to those of other groups , they lag whites when it comes to owning a desktop or laptop computer or accessing the internet ( with or without a mobile device ) . According to the Pew Research analysis :
Enthusiasm for trade was particularly strong in Africa , the poorest continent , where majorities in 6 of the 10 countries surveyed said trade was very good for their nations . As might be expected , international commerce was also popular among upper income people , who in Brazil , France , Mexico and the United States , were twice as likely as the poor to think trade was very beneficial . Nevertheless , for most of the world 's people , their support for trade was guarded . The public was more likely to see international commerce as somewhat good , not very good for their country in nations as disparate as Brazil , China and Great Britain .
Public awareness of specific components of the law varies widely . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) say that the law requires uninsured people to get health insurance .
For the second week in a row , the plight of six miners trapped in a Utah mine dominated public interest . Though coverage of the miners fell off significantly from the previous week , 32 % of the public paid very close attention to the story and roughly the same proportion ( 34 % ) said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . News of the trapped miners and efforts to rescue them accounted for 7 % of the national newshole last week , down from 13 % the previous week . Americans continued to pay close attention to news from Iraq last week , while media coverage of events there remained relatively low . War news was followed very closely by one-in-three Americans ( 33 % ) and 16 % said this was the story they followed most closely . Interest in the war is largely unchanged from the previous week when 36 % were following news from Iraq very closely .
There is widespread support across most of the NATO countries surveyed for the use of military force to maintain order in the world . A median of 57 % across 16 member countries agree that military force is sometimes necessary , while a median of 36 % disagree . Across most countries surveyed – both members of NATO and those that do not belong to the organization – about half or more support the use of military force to maintain order . And in seven countries ( Sweden , the U.S. , Canada , the UK , Turkey , Russia and Hungary ) seven-in-ten or more hold this view . Germans are more divided , with 47 % saying that military force is sometimes necessary and a similar 52 % disagreeing with that statement . In Bulgaria , only 38 % say military force is sometimes necessary .
One-in-seven Millennial and Generation Z adults ( 14 % ) have taken part in a citizen science project over the past year , and a total of 34 % have done so at some point in the past . By contrast , Baby Boomer and older adults are about half as likely to say they have participated in a citizen science activity in the past year .
Overall , 48 % of Hispanic eligible voters turned out to vote in 2012 , down from 49.9 % in 2008 . By comparison , the 2012 voter turnout rate among blacks was 66.6 % and among whites was 64.1 % , both significantly higher than the turnout rate among Hispanics .
For the fifth time in U.S. history , and the second time this century , a presidential candidate has won the White House while losing the popular vote . In this week 's Electoral College balloting , Donald Trump won 304 electoral votes to Hillary Clinton 's 227 , with five Democratic and two Republican `` faithless electors '' voting for other people . That result was despite the fact that Clinton received nearly 2.9 million more popular votes than Trump in November 's election , according to Pew Research Center 's tabulation of state election results . Our tally shows Clinton won 65.8 million votes ( 48.25 % ) to almost 63 million ( 46.15 % ) for Trump , with minor-party and independent candidates taking the rest .
The oil leak and the economy 's continued struggles remain the top long-running stories of this summer . Close to four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say they followed news about the economy very closely , while 13 % say this was the story they followed more closely than any other . News about the economy – not including final congressional action on a financial regulatory overhaul – accounted for 10 % of the newshole , according to PEJ . About a quarter ( 23 % ) say they followed news about the regulatory overhaul very closely ; 4 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the legislation accounted for 5 % of coverage . Just more than two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they followed news about the situation in Afghanistan very closely last week ; 5 % say they followed Afghanistan news more closely than any other story . News about the war accounted for 4 % of coverage . Fewer than two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they followed news about the 2010 elections very closely . This was the top story for 2 % . This news made up 6 % of coverage . Meanwhile , 14 % say they very closely followed news about a resolution passed by the NAACP calling on Tea Party leaders to condemn racist talk among supporters ; 2 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the Tea Party , primarily news about the NAACP resolution , accounted for 3 % of coverage .
Similarly , while 38 % of conservative Republicans , who make up about two-thirds of all Republicans and GOP leaners , express positive views of Trump 's conduct , only 20 % of moderate and liberal Republicans do so . And older Republicans , especially those 65 and older , are more likely than younger Republicans to say they like Trump 's conduct as president .
But views were more equivocal when it came to the gap between the rich and everyone else . While a 53 % majority in this same poll favored the government doing a lot to reduce poverty , just 43 % said the government should do a lot to reduce the gap between rich people and everyone else .
The Conservative and Labour parties both received more negative statements than positive on Twitter . They also drew the most attention among the six . There were roughly 5 million tweets about the Labour Party : 48 % of the mentions carried a negative tone , 27 % positive and 26 % neutral . The sentiment around the incumbent Conservative Party ( discussed in 3.5 million tweets ) was even more negative – 72 % of the assertions were negative , compared with just 10 % that were positive and 18 % that were neutral .
Two examples illustrate this pattern . Democrats with a high degree of science knowledge are much more likely than those with low science knowledge to say the scientific method generally produces accurate conclusions ( 86 % vs. 52 % ) . Among Republicans , however , there are only modest differences by science knowledge on this question .
While New York is no longer the home to the largest number of immigrants , its immigrant population is more diverse than those of California or Texas . Large shares of California 's and Texas ' immigrant populations are from Mexico and South and East Asia . By contrast , about a quarter of immigrants in New York are from the Caribbean ( 24 % ) and another 24 % are from South and East Asia . Another 19 % are from Europe or Canada and Central and South America , each . Only 6 % of immigrants in New York are from Mexico .
Average minutes per visit for the top 50 U.S. daily newspapers , based on circulation , is about 2 1/3 minutes in Q4 2018 . This is down 5 % from Q4 2017 .
Digital advertising accounted for 35 % of newspaper advertising revenue in 2018 , based on this analysis of publicly traded newspaper companies . The portion stood at 31 % in 2017 – but at 17 % in 2011 , the first year it was possible to perform this analysis .
One-in-ten ( 10 % ) said they followed developments in the government investigation into the causes of the Gulf oil spill more closely than any other news ; 19 % said they followed this news very closely . Reports that the companies working on the well had been aware of potential flaws in certain materials accounted for 3 % of coverage . Nearly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) said they followed news about recent terrorist plots in the U.S. and Europe very closely ; 8 % said they followed these reports more closely than other stories . News about explosives discovered on two flights from Yemen accounted for 5 % of coverage , while news about the arrest of a man allegedly plotting to bomb Washington , D.C. Metro stations accounted for another 2 % . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) said they very closely followed news about the tsunami and earthquake that hit Indonesia last week ; 4 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The natural disasters accounted for 1 % of coverage .
Seven-in-ten Americans say the U.S. should cooperate more with Germany , but only 41 % of Germans say Germany should cooperate more with the U.S. German views on this question have become more negative in the past year : In 2017 , a 56 % majority of Germans said they should collaborate more with the U.S . When asked about cooperation with other major powers , Americans and Germans generally agree that their countries should cooperate more with France , the United Kingdom and China . But when it comes to Russia , people in the U.S. and Germany sharply diverge . A majority of Americans ( 58 % ) want to cooperate less with their Cold War adversary , while nearly seven-in-ten Germans ( 69 % ) want to cooperate more with Russia , the source of about a third of Germany 's natural gas imports as of 2015 .
About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) say they heard a least a little last week about Somali pirates hijacking an American yacht and killing four hostages ; 41 % say they heard a lot about this , while 40 % say they heard a little . Few ( 18 % ) had heard nothing at all . The media devoted 3 % of the newshole to the pirate story . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say they heard at least a little about the possibility that the federal government could soon shut down if Republicans in Congress and the Obama Administration fail to agree on a budget . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say they heard a lot about this , while 33 % say they heard a little . That 's up from one week earlier when 21 % said they had heard a lot about a possible shutdown and 35 % said they had heard a little . If the government were to shut down , Americans are just as likely to blame the Obama administration as Republicans in Congress . ( See `` More Side with Wisconsin Unions than Governor , '' Feb. 28 , 2011 . ) Most of the public ( 74 % ) also says they heard at least a little about Toyota recalling about two million vehicles . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they heard a lot about this , while 45 % say they heard a little about the recall .
What is the state of American journalism ? We have been studying the American news media for over a decade , following the industry through a tumultuous time as the rise of the internet upended a decades-old business model . This year 's State of the News Media report ( the 11th edition ) found new optimism in the industry due to the arrival of new digital players , the growth of new revenue streams and more evidence than ever that news is a part of the explosion of social media and mobile devices . But there 's also been a severe loss of jobs — particularly in newspaper newsrooms — and total revenue supporting American journalism has declined by one-third since 2006 .
Latinos continue to lag behind non-Latinos in cell phone use . Just over three-fourths ( 76 % ) of Latinos ages 18 and older use cell phones ; this number is 86 % among non-Latinos .9 The same is true with regard to internet use , despite marked gains by Latinos in recent years ( Livingston , Parker and Fox 2009 ) . Some 64 % of Latinos use the internet , compared with 78 % of non-Latinos—a 14 percentage point difference .
Overall , 52 % describe themselves as `` very concerned '' or `` somewhat concerned '' about government surveillance of Americans ' data and electronic communications , compared with 46 % who describe themselves as `` not very concerned '' or `` not at all concerned '' about the surveillance . When asked about more specific areas of concern over their own communications and online activities , respondents expressed somewhat lower levels of concern about electronic surveillance in various parts of their digital lives :
The share of Americans who use ride-hailing services has increased dramatically . Today , 36 % of U.S. adults say they have ever used a ride-hailing service such as Uber or Lyft , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2018 . By comparison , just 15 % of Americans said they had used these services in late 2015 , and one-third had never heard of ride-hailing before . Ride-hailing use has increased across most demographic groups , but adoption figures continue to vary by age , educational attainment and income level . For example , roughly half of Americans ages 18 to 29 ( 51 % ) say they have used a ride-hailing service , compared with 24 % of those ages 50 and older . Those whose annual household income is $ 75,000 or more are roughly twice as likely as those earning less than $ 30,000 to have used these services ( 53 % vs. 24 % ) . And over half of adults with a bachelor 's or advanced degree ( 55 % ) say they have used these services , compared with 20 % of those who have a high school diploma or less . Notably , adoption gaps between urban and rural Americans are present even within groups that collectively use ride-hailing services at high rates . For example , among Americans who earn $ 75,000 or more annually , urban residents are more than twice as likely to have used these services as high-income individuals living in rural communities ( 71 % vs. 32 % ) . Substantial urban-rural differences also exist among Americans with a college degree and among those ages 18 to 29 .
The Syrian civil war , now in its seventh year , pits many of the region 's key players against each other . Few are optimistic that the war will end within the next year , though many believe it will not last beyond the next five years . Views are most optimistic in Jordan . Fully 80 % expect the war in Syria to end sometime in the next five years , including 32 % who think it will end within the year . Syrians living in Jordan are even more hopeful about the war in their homeland ; 64 % expect it will end within the year , 26 % say it will end within the next five years and only 10 % think it will continue for more than five years . Roughly two-thirds in Israel say the war will be over within the next five years , and 48 % in Lebanon agree .
Though support for the death penalty has declined across most groups , a Pew Research Center survey conducted Aug. 23-Sept. 2 among 1,201 adults finds that most Republicans continue to largely favor its use in cases of murder , while most Democrats oppose it . By more than two-to-one , more Republicans ( 72 % ) than Democrats ( 34 % ) currently favor the death penalty . Two decades ago , when majorities in both parties favored the death penalty , the partisan gap was only 16 percentage points ( 87 % of Republicans vs. 71 % of Democrats ) .
With the death toll from Boko Haram 's terrorist campaigns numbering in the thousands , it is perhaps not surprising that among the 69 % of Nigerian Muslims concerned by Islamic extremism , a 48 % -plurality say they are most worried by the violence associated with extremism . Fewer say their worries focus on the possibility that extremism will lead to reduced personal freedoms ( 19 % ) , hurt the country 's economy ( 15 % ) , or divide the nation ( 10 % ) . Christian Nigerians worried about Islamic extremism are also most concerned about the violent nature of extremist groups ( 64 % ) .
The analysis also examined the kinds of hospitals Americans live closest to . Nationally , two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) live closest to a nonprofit hospital , but people in rural areas are more likely than those in suburban and urban areas to live closest to a government-run hospital . Around one-in-six rural Americans ( 17 % ) live closest to a hospital run by the government . While this is about the same as the share in urban areas ( 14 % ) , it 's larger than the share in suburban areas ( 10 % ) Whether a hospital is nonprofit , for-profit or owned by the government can have implications for the types of services it provides , previous research has found .
White evangelicals are typically analyzed as a group , but an examination of the younger generation ( those ages 18 - 29 ) provides evidence that white evangelicals may be undergoing some significant political changes . An analysis of surveys conducted between 2001 and 2007 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press suggests that younger white evangelicals have become increasingly dissatisfied with Bush and are moving away from the GOP . The question is whether these changes will result in a shift in white evangelical votes in 2008 and beyond . Bush 's approval rating has fallen fairly steadily among almost every segment of the American public , but the drop in support has been particularly significant among white evangelicals ages 18 - 29 . This group was among Bush 's strongest supporters in the beginning of his presidency ; in 2002 , for example , an overwhelming majority ( 87 % ) approved of Bush 's job performance . By August 2007 , however , Bush 's approval rating among this group had plummeted by 42 percentage points , with most of the drop ( 25 points ) coming since 2005 . By contrast , Bush 's job approval among older generations of white evangelicals ( those ages 30 and older ) has undergone a much more gradual decline , falling 28 points since 2002 and just 11 points since 2005 .
Amid rising tensions in East Asia , a new report finds that while relatively few Chinese ( 12 % ) regard the United States as an enemy , about four-in-ten Chinese ( 41 % ) see the U.S. military presence in East Asia as a major threat to their country and an even greater number ( 63 % ) see the U.S. as the nation posing the greatest threat to China . In addition to the general public , the survey also examined the views of five elite groups : government officials , journalists , business leaders , military scholars , and non-military scholars . Majorities in four of these five groups described the American military presence in East Asia as a major threat ( non-military scholars were the lone exception ) .
It takes a lot to dent Americans ' optimism about housing . Just over two years ago , when the housing bubble 's collapse was fresher in people 's minds , eight out of 10 people surveyed for a Pew Research report agreed that buying a home was the best long-term investment a person can make .
Hispanics had a gender gap in voting preference , with 73 % of Hispanic women and 63 % of Hispanic men backing the Democratic congressional candidates – a reflection of the election 's broad gender differences . In a pre-election Pew Research Center survey of Hispanics , differences by gender extended to views of the country . For example , Hispanic women were significantly more dissatisfied with the way things are going in the country today than Hispanic men . A gender gap also existed among white voters , with 49 % of white women backing the Democratic congressional candidate compared with 39 % of white men . By contrast , few gender differences existed among black voters , with about nine-in-ten black voters of both genders backing Democratic candidates .
Global publics oppose some of Trump 's major policies . We tested five of Trump 's major national security and foreign policy proposals – withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal , placing tighter restrictions on people entering the U.S. from certain majority-Muslim nations , pulling out of international climate change agreements , withdrawing from trade deals and building a wall on the Mexican border – and with a few exceptions , they meet with broad disapproval around the world . Trump gets his lowest ratings in Mexico . Over the past decade , U.S. presidents have gotten mixed or negative reviews in Mexico , but at 5 % , Trump registers the lowest confidence rating of any U.S. leader in Mexico since Pew Research Center began surveying there . His rating in Mexico is also the lowest among the 37 nations polled in 2017 . The proposed border wall between the U.S. and Mexico has been a high-profile position for Trump since he declared his candidacy for president , and more than nine-in-ten Mexicans oppose it . U.S. favorability has typically been higher than confidence in the American president in Mexico , and that remains the case this year – though the share of the public with a positive view of the U.S. has dropped steeply since 2015 .
The most liberal and conservative members of the 115th Congress have attracted more Facebook followers than moderates , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis . In both legislative chambers , members ' ideology is a strong predictor of the number of people who follow them on Facebook . The most liberal and most conservative House members had a median of 14,361 followers as of July 25 , compared with 9,017 followers for those in the middle of the ideological spectrum . The median number of followers for the Senate 's most liberal and conservative lawmakers was 78,360 , while moderates had 32,626 . ( These figures reflect each member 's total number of followers since the creation of their official Facebook page , not the number gained since the 115th Congress began . )
Large majorities of blacks ( 84 % ) and Hispanics ( 71 % ) disapprove of the way Trump is handling his job . Whites are evenly split in their views . By 67 % to 27 % , white evangelical Protestants continue to approve of the job Trump is doing . Among white mainline Protestants , about half ( 52 % ) approve of Trump 's performance ( 40 % disapprove ) . On balance , Catholics are more likely to disapprove ( 55 % ) than approve ( 41 % ) of how Trump is handling his job as president . Ratings are even more negative among the religiously unaffiliated , 71 % of whom say they disapprove of Trump .
Education is also tied to views about how the pandemic will shape America 's role in international affairs . In general , Americans who have completed higher levels of education are more likely to think the country 's global influence will recede . For example , 45 % of those with postgraduate degrees think the U.S. 's global position will decline after the pandemic , compared with just 21 % of those with a high school diploma or less .
For the first time , a greater share of Hispanic recent high school graduates are enrolled in college than whites . College enrollment rates among 18- to 24-year old Hispanics who had completed high school continued their upward march in 2012 . According to the Census Bureau , 49 % of young Hispanic high school graduates were enrolled in college . By comparison , 47 % of white non-Hispanic high school graduates were enrolled in college . These findings reflect those of a May Pew Research Center report that showed the share of Hispanic high school graduates enrolled in college immediately after high school surpassed whites in 2012 .
By contrast , about as many say the Democratic Party is divided as not ( 48 % mostly divided , 49 % mostly united ) . But that represents a change from October , when 39 % of registered voters thought the party was divided .
That 's especially true when it comes to the jobs situation . Nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) of self-identified Republicans said jobs have `` hardly recovered at all '' from the recession ( which began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009 , according to the National Bureau of Economic Research ) , compared with 44 % of self-identified Democrats and half of independents . By contrast , 53 % of Democrats and 46 % of independents say employment has `` partially recovered , '' versus just over a third ( 35 % ) of Republicans . Both could be right , depending on which jobs measure you look at : While the unemployment rate has steadily improved for nearly four years , the employment-population ratio , which compares people with jobs to the entire working-age population , is up only slightly since its early-2011 low .
Most Latino registered voters say they want government to be more involved in solving the nation 's problems , a view that is reflected in their broad support for raising the minimum wage , government involvement in health care and stricter gun laws , according to a national Pew Research Center survey of Latino adults conducted in December . Most Hispanic voters ( 71 % ) say the government should do more to solve problems , while 27 % say government is doing too many things better left to businesses and individuals . Hispanic Democratic and Republican registered voters have sharply different views on the role of government , though the gap is not as wide as it is among the broader U.S. public . Among Hispanic voters , 82 % who identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party say the government should do more to solve problems , compared with 51 % of those who affiliate with or lean toward the GOP .
The Gaza fighting between Israel and Hamas , which escalated from aerial warfare to fierce ground fighting , accounted for 21 % of the newshole from Dec. 29-Jan. 4 , according to the weekly News Coverage Index from the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . The new spasm of Middle East violence attracted significantly more coverage than the No . 2 story , the economic crisis , which filled 14 % of the newshole . Although it had been widely believed that President-elect Barack Obama 's first priority would be working to mitigate that meltdown , last week 's events raised the possibility that the Gaza bloodshed could pose his most immediate challenge instead .
A Pew Research Center survey of 1,197 lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender adults conducted this spring found that workplace discrimination is one of the most important policy issues in the LGBT community , with 57 % of LGBT adults saying that equal employment rights should be a `` top priority . ''
A new study from Pew Research Center suggests that , after decades of consistent decline , U.S. telephone survey response rates have plateaued over the past four years . And contrary to the current narrative that polls are under siege , the data show that the bias introduced into survey data by current levels of participation is limited in scope . This report is the fourth in a series of Center studies tracking the impact of such changes in survey response ( see previous studies in 1997 , 2003 and 2012 . ) Among the key findings : After decades of decline , the response rates for telephone polls like those conducted for Pew Research Center have stabilized in recent years to around 9 % 1,2 While the stabilization is good news for the industry , such low response rates do signal the potential for bias to creep into surveys if the people who consistently participate in polls are different than those who do not . That said , the current study and prior research suggest that response rate is an unreliable indicator of bias .
About 250,000 babies were born to unauthorized immigrant parents in the United States in 2016 , the latest year for which information is available , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of government data . This represents a 36 % decrease from a peak of about 390,000 in 2007 . The analysis follows President Donald Trump 's announcement that his administration may seek to end `` birthright citizenship . '' Births to unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. generally rose throughout the 1980s , 1990s and 2000s but have declined since the start of the Great Recession about a decade ago , according to estimates based on data from the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey and its Current Population Survey .
In the U.S. , social media played a role in major social movements such as # MeToo and # BlackLivesMatter . For example , a Pew Research Center analysis of publicly available English language tweets found that the # MeToo hashtag had been used more than 19 million times on Twitter from Oct. 15 , 2017 ( when actress Alyssa Milano tweeted urging victims of sexual harassment to reply `` me too '' ) through Sept. 30 , 2018 .
Data from the 2002 National Survey of Latinos allows comparisons of the views and experiences of Latinos living in five states with large Latino populations : California , Texas , New York , New Jersey , and Florida . Nearly seven in ten Latinos in the United States live in these five states , with the largest populations residing in California ( 31 % of Latinos in the United States ) and Texas ( 19 % ) , followed by New York ( 8 % ) , Florida ( 8 % ) , and New Jersey ( 3 % ) ( Chart 1 ) .
A separate survey conducted in June and July last year found wide party gaps in views of gender and leadership . About eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 79 % ) said there are too few women in high political offices , compared with 33 % of Republicans and Republican leaners – a 46-point gap . The gender gap on this question was substantial , with 69 % of women overall saying there are too few women in office compared with 48 % of men . Among Republicans , gender gaps in views of women in leadership were particularly wide . By 20 percentage points , Republican women were more likely than their male counterparts to say there are too few women in high political offices in the U.S. today . And while most Republican women said it 's easier for men to get these positions , closer to half of GOP men said the same . ( There are also party and gender divides in views of women in corporate leadership . )
A majority of Indians ( 55 % ) see the situation in Kashmir as a very big problem . When asked how this issue has changed over the past five years , more than half ( 53 % ) say circumstances in Kashmir have gotten worse . Only 18 % think things have gotten better , and just 6 % believe conditions are the same . When asked about the government 's strategy in dealing with the situation in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir , a majority believes the Indian government should use more military force than they are currently using . Equal , though small , shares think the military should use either less or about the same amount of force ( both 7 % ) .
The vast majority of Americans say they followed coverage of the first presidential debate between Mitt Romney and Barack Obama , including 56 % who followed the debate live . Most of these real-time viewers watched on television , but 11 % of live debate watchers were `` dual screeners , '' following coverage on a computer or mobile device at the same time as following television coverage . Another 3 % say they followed the debate live exclusively online .
And the survey did interview more Democrats than Republicans ; 38 % of registered voters said they think of themselves as Democrats , 25 % as Republicans , and 33 % as independents ( to clarify , some reporters and bloggers incorrectly posted their own calculations of party identification based on unweighted figures ) . That 's slightly more Democrats than average over the past year , and slightly fewer Republicans . Recent Pew Research Center surveys have found anywhere from a one-point to a ten-point Democratic identification advantage , with an average of about seven points .
One striking example is in perceptions of Trump 's handling of the coronavirus outbreak . In a March 2020 survey , 63 % of those whose main source of political and election news is Fox News said Trump is doing an excellent job responding to the outbreak . No more than a quarter of those who cited other news outlets as their main source of political news said this . Fox News regulars were considerably more likely than Republicans overall to describe Trump 's handling of the outbreak as excellent ( 63 % vs. 47 % ) .
Familiarity with online dating through usage by friends or family members has increased dramatically since our last survey of online dating in 2005 . Some 42 % of Americans know someone who has used online dating , up from 31 % in 2005 . And 29 % of Americans now know someone who met a spouse or other long-term partner through online dating , up from just 15 % in 2005 .
As in the past , young people view the ACA more positively than do older adults . Among those younger than 30 , about as many approve ( 50 % ) as disapprove ( 47 % ) of the health care law . Among older age groups , more disapprove than approve .
An overwhelming majority of Americans ( 82 % ) support having a school-based requirement that healthy children be vaccinated for measles , mumps and rubella . Older adults , ages 65 and older , are especially strong in their support for requiring the MMR vaccine . Seniors , ages 65 and older , support a school-based requirement for the MMR vaccine by a margin of 90 % to 8 % who say that parents should be able to decide this . Smaller majorities of younger age groups support a school requirement for the MMR vaccine . Parents of young children , parents of school-age children and those with no minor age children hold roughly similar views on this issue , with a majority of all three groups saying that healthy schoolchildren should be required to be vaccinated because of the health risk to others when children are not vaccinated . Some 77 % of parents with children ages 0 to 4 say that healthy children should be required to be vaccinated for the MMR because of the potential health risk to others when children are not vaccinated , while 22 % of this group says parents should be able to decide not to have their children vaccinated even if that creates health risks for others .
For all of the 11 entities we asked about in the fall 2014 survey – from government agencies to credit card companies to social media sites – only small minorities say they are `` very confident '' the records maintained by these organizations will remain private and secure . Online service providers are among the least trusted entities when it comes to keeping information private and secure . When asked about search engine providers , online video sites , social media sites and online advertisers , the majority felt `` not too confident '' or `` not at all confident '' that these entities could protect their data :
In one indicator of their commitment to help others , 73 % of Japanese believe that Japanese companies should increase their investment in developing nations . Just 19 % oppose such business activity . Roughly as many Japanese ( 71 % ) support importing more goods from developing nations in Asia , Africa and Latin America . Again , only a fifth of the public opposes such commercial help for poor nations . And 66 % of Japanese back increasing foreign aid to developing countries , while 27 % oppose boosting such assistance . ( Currently , Japan commits 0.22 % of its gross national income to foreign aid , according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development . By comparison , the U.S. donates 0.17 % and the UK 0.71 % . ) Notably , Japanese men ( 74 % ) are more likely than women ( 58 % ) to support increased foreign aid for developing countries . )
In opinions about whether the American people can solve major problems , the typology groups split mostly on economic , rather than partisan , lines . Republican-leaning Disaffecteds , the typology group hardest hit by the recession , are the least optimistic about the nation 's ability to solve major problems . Fully 56 % of Disaffecteds say `` this country ca n't solve many of its important problems . '' Nearly half ( 48 % ) of Hard-Pressed Democrats – another economically stressed group – express skepticism about the country 's ability to deal with major problems . But majorities in all other typology groups say that Americans are able to solve their problems and get what they want .
A downward trajectory in trust in government also is seen across racial and ethnic lines . Currently , white non-Hispanics , black non-Hispanics and Hispanics all express historically low levels of trust in government . During the Republican presidencies of Reagan and G.W . Bush more whites than blacks said they trusted the government to do the right thing . Conversely , during the Democratic administrations of Clinton and Obama blacks were more likely than whites to express trust in government .
While divided in their overall views , the public sees a more prominent role for the U.S. today than it did a few years ago . In 2016 , 46 % said the U.S. played a less important and powerful role as a world leader than it did 10 years prior ; smaller shares said its global role was as important ( 31 % ) or more important ( 21 % ) than it was a decade before . Republicans have become much more likely to say the U.S. plays a more important role as a world leader today than in the past . Overall , 45 % say the United States ' global role is more important today than it was a decade ago ; in 2016 , just 15 % of Republicans said this . This shift has been accompanied by a sharp decline in the share of Republicans who think the country 's global role is less important than a decade ago ; just 19 % say this today , compared with 65 % who said this in 2016 . Views among Democrats have moved in the opposite direction . Nearly half ( 49 % ) think the U.S. plays a less important leadership role today than it did 10 years ago , up from 29 % who said this in 2016 . Three-in-ten Democrats say the U.S. global leadership role is about as important as it was 10 years ago and 19 % think it is more important ; both shares are somewhat lower than they were in 2016 .
Many also followed reports about preparations for the second wave of the swine flu this fall , but not at the interest levels seen during the first wave in early May . Still , large majorities do know several key facts about the H1N1 virus and the vaccine being developed to limit its spread . About seven-in-ten correctly answer questions about who is most likely to be infected by the virus , how serious most cases are expected to be and whether people will need a separate vaccine for the seasonal flu . With repeated warnings in the media and from government officials about the upcoming flu season , a large majority ( 69 % ) knows that experts think most cases of the swine flu are not life-threatening . A similar proportion ( 67 % ) correctly says that the illness appears more likely to infect children and young adults than older adults . And 71 % know that the government says the vaccine will need to be administered in addition to – not instead of – a separate vaccine for the usual seasonal flu .
A global median of 70 % say China plays a more important role in the world than it did 10 years ago . Russia is a distant second in this assessment , with only 42 % saying that country is more important than it was a decade ago . A median of only 31 % believe the U.S. plays a more important role than it did a decade ago – less than half of the share who say this of China . Only 8 % of those surveyed say China plays a less important role than it did a decade ago , the lowest share across the seven countries tested . In the U.S. , 72 % believe China is more important now than it was a decade ago , while only 31 % of Americans say the same about their own country .
States with low shares of Mexicans include some in the Northeast : New Hampshire ( 7 % ) , Rhode Island ( 6 % ) and Massachusetts ( 3 % ) . Hawaii 's share was 7 % . The share is markedly higher in some states , especially those with high shares of unauthorized immigrants in the population . Among adults ages 16 and older who are working or looking for work , unauthorized immigrants represent the highest share in Nevada ( 10.2 % in 2012 ) ; Nevada also has the highest share of unauthorized immigrants in the overall population ( 7.6 % ) . The share in the labor force also is relatively high in California ( 9.4 % ) and Texas ( 8.9 % ) , which rank second and third in the unauthorized immigrant share of the total population . ( Appendix Table A1 shows the number and share of unauthorized immigrants in the labor force for each state . )
Similar to Catholics , white mainline Protestants are ambivalent toward these issues , but they are more open to potential human enhancements in some ways . For instance , a majority ( 56 % ) of white mainline Protestants say gene editing for babies would be no different than other ways humans try to better themselves . Fewer ( 42 % ) say they are crossing a line and meddling with nature . `` I think [ mainline churches ] will see much of this for what it is : an effort to take advantage of these new technologies to help improve human life , '' says Ted Peters , professor of systematic theology at Pacific Lutheran Theological Seminary .
Revenue from retransmission fees – the fees paid by cable and satellite systems to carry local channels – has been increasing rapidly in the past decade , according to estimates from Kagan , a media research group in S & P Global Market Intelligence . In 2018 , retransmission revenue reached almost $ 10.2 billion , up from $ 9.4 billion in 2017 ; Kagan projects that this figure will reach $ 12.2 billion by 2023 .
While the nation 's budget deficit may be the focus in Washington , the public continues to view the job situation as the most worrisome national economic issue . Four-in-ten ( 40 % ) say the job situation is the top economic worry , while 25 % say the federal budget deficit . These views have changed little since March . And there has been no improvement in the Republican Party 's image over the past year . The job approval rating of Republican congressional leaders , which fell to just 22 % in August of 2011 after the debt ceiling debate , stands virtually unchanged at 25 % today . Meanwhile , the job rating for both Democratic leaders in Congress ( now 40 % up from 29 % in August 2011 ) and Obama ( 55 % up from 43 % ) have rebounded by double-digits .
Almost one-in-five voting members of the House and Senate are a racial or ethnic minority , making the 115th U.S. Congress the most diverse in history . And while Congress as a whole remains disproportionately white when compared with the U.S. population , the racial and ethnic profile of newly elected members more closely resembles the increasingly diverse populace , according to a Pew Research Center analysis . Among minority groups in Congress , the biggest growth over time has been among Hispanics and Asians , both of whom have doubled their representation in the national legislature since 2001 . Today , there are 39 Hispanics and 15 Asians in office , up from 19 Hispanics and seven Asians in the 107th Congress .
Differences along racial and ethnic lines are even more dramatic . About half of black fathers ( 47 % ) are living apart from at least one of their children ages 17 or younger , and 36 % are living apart from all of their children . Far lower shares of Hispanic ( 26 % ) and white ( 17 % ) fathers are living apart from one or more of their children .
Pew Research Center , in collaboration with Abt SRBI , appended two different activity flags ( Cell-WINS and Targus ) in a large ( n=10,013 ) national dual frame RDD survey in 2014 . Half of the interviews in that study were conducted on cellphones and half on landlines . With the Cell-WINS flag , 15 % of flagged-inactive cellphone numbers were found to be working and residential ( false negatives ) , and one-in-ten flagged-active numbers were found to be non-working or non-residential ( false positives ) . With the Targus flag , both error rates were higher .
Among those with a postgraduate degree , 95 % of Democrats feel colleges and universities are very or somewhat open to a wide range of opinions and viewpoints . Just 46 % of Republican postgraduates say the same . And among those with no college experience , 83 % of Democrats say higher education is open to differing viewpoints , compared with just 45 % of Republicans .
Divides between trusters and distrusters also appear when people are asked about several international institutions . In all 14 countries surveyed , trusters are more likely than distrusters to have a favorable view of the EU and UN .
At the same time , unauthorized file-sharing venues are still firmly rooted in the online music world . In a recent Pew Internet Project survey , 15 % of online adults admitted to downloading or sharing files using peer-to-peer or BitTorrent .30 Globally , estimates from file-sharing research firm Big Champagne place the P2P universe at more than 200 million computers with at least one peer-to-peer application installed , and operators of the popular Pirate Bay torrent tracker have identified more than 25 million `` peers '' who have used their site alone to exchange files .
Only about 56 % of students earn degrees within six years . The National Student Clearinghouse , a nonprofit verification and research organization , tracked 2.4 million first-time college students who enrolled in fall 2007 with the intent of pursuing a degree or certificate . The completion rate was highest ( 72.9 % ) among students who started at four-year , private , nonprofit schools , and lowest ( 39.9 % ) among those who started at two-year public institutions . Business is still the most common major . According to the National Center for Education Statistics , about a fifth ( 20.5 % ) of the 1.79 million bachelor 's degrees conferred in 2011 - 12 were in business . Business has been the single most common major since 1980 - 81 ; before that , education led the way . The least common bachelor 's degrees , according to the NCES , were in library science ( 95 conferred in 2011 - 12 ) , military technologies and applied sciences ( 86 ) and precision production ( 37 ) .
Another sign of the importance of the Bible to African Americans is their participation in prayer and scripture study groups . ( Our question did not distinguish between the two types of groups . ) Across religions , black people in the U.S. are more likely to take part in prayer or scripture study groups at least weekly ( 39 % ) than are whites ( 22 % ) and Hispanics ( 27 % ) . And people in the historically black Protestant tradition are as likely to do this ( 44 % ) as those in the evangelical tradition ( 44 % ) and more likely to do this than are Catholics ( 17 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 19 % ) . They are less likely to participate in prayer and scripture study groups weekly than are Mormons ( 71 % ) and Jehovah 's Witnesses ( 85 % ) .
The data clearly show that incomes are higher for immigrants who have been in the U.S. for more than 10 years , compared with more recently arrived immigrants . Average family income for both legal immigrants and refugees in the U.S. for more than 10 years is only 2–3 % below that of natives . For longer-term naturalized citizen families , average family income is 23 % higher than native income . When family size is taken into account and incomes are converted to a per capita basis , even the somewhat higher-income immigrant groups tend to suffer in comparison with native families . Only among naturalized citizens in the U.S. more than 10 years do per capita family incomes exceed those of natives . Per capita incomes for unauthorized families are less than half of natives ' per capita incomes . For LPR aliens and refugees , per capita family incomes are 30 - 40 % below those of U.S. natives . Note that these differences exceed those expected purely on the basis of average levels of education .
Reporters for niche outlets now fill more seats in the Senate press gallery than do journalists who work for daily newspapers . The face of the Washington press corps has changed markedly in recent years , transformed by this increase in the number of journalists working for `` niche '' publications and digital startups .
Most adults who have helped an aging parent see it as rewarding ; relatively few say it is stressful . Among those who have helped their parents in a matter of ways – financially , with errands housework , or home repairs or with personal care – 88 % say it 's rewarding . Roughly one-third ( 32 % ) of adults who have helped with any of these tasks say helping an aging parent is stressful .
Views of Latino officers on fatal incidents and the ensuing protests mirror those of white officers . Roughly seven-in-ten Latino and white officers ( 72 % of each group ) say recent fatal encounters between blacks and the police are isolated incidents , rather than signs of a broader problem between blacks and the police .
On a personal level , too , Germans are happier with their lives , according to the survey , which was conducted in spring 2019 among representative samples of adults in the pre-1990 Federal Republic of Germany ( West Germany ) and former German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) . Majorities in both areas now place themselves at 7 or higher on a 10-point `` ladder '' of life satisfaction , where 10 represents the best possible life . When Pew Research Center asked the life satisfaction question in 1991 and 2009 , no more than roughly half in either area placed themselves in this top tier . The increase has been especially dramatic in the former East , where the share who rate their lives at 7 or higher has almost quadrupled from just 15 % in 1991 to 59 % this year .
Like all countries surveyed this year , Canada 's favorable rating of the U.S. dropped sharply in 2017 as confidence in the U.S. president plummeted . In the more than three years since Trump first took office , views have slowly shifted , but 2020 sees the lowest ratings for the U.S. in Canada since Pew Research Center began polling there almost two decades ago . Only 35 % of Canadians have a favorable view of their southern neighbor , and 20 % trust Trump to do what is right regarding world affairs .
The shorter tenures of today 's Republican class continue a congressional experience gap between GOP lawmakers and Democrats , which has persisted since the 1960s and widened after the 2010 elections . Current House Republicans have served an average of 4.6 terms – almost as short a period as following the 1994 elections , when a wave of Republican first-termers gave the party control of the House for the first time in 40 years . Meanwhile , House Democrats now average 6.7 terms in office , among the most for the party over the past century .
Western leaders are remarkably unpopular in Turkey . Only 3 % of Turks say they have a lot or some confidence in President George W. Bush to do the right thing in world affairs . While Bush is the most unpopular Western leader included on the survey , France 's Jacque Chirac ( 5 % a lot or some confidence ) , Britain 's Tony Blair ( 7 % ) , and Germany 's Angela Merkel ( 11 % ) are not far behind .
About half of Americans ( 49 % ) and Germans ( 47 % ) agree with the statement , `` Our people are not perfect , but our culture is superior to others ; '' 44 % in Spain share this view . In Britain and France , only about a third or fewer ( 32 % and 27 % , respectively ) think their culture is better than others .
About one-in-five police officers nationally ( 21 % ) say their job nearly always or often makes them feel angry and frustrated – feelings that are linked to more negative views toward the public . These frequently angry , frustrated officers also are more likely than their colleagues to support more physical or aggressive policing methods , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted May 19-Aug. 14 , 2016 , by the National Police Research Platform of 7,917 sworn police and sheriff 's officers in 54 departments with at least 100 officers . Frustration is more prevalent than anger among today 's police officers . About half of the officers surveyed ( 51 % ) say their work nearly always ( 10 % ) or often ( 41 % ) makes them feel frustrated , while 22 % say they nearly always ( 3 % ) or often ( 19 % ) feel angry . When these two measures are combined , a total of 21 % of officers say they nearly always or often feel angry and frustrated . The survey finds that officers who frequently feel angry and frustrated by their job are twice as likely as all other police to say officers have reason to distrust most people ( 46 % vs. 23 % ) . They are more likely than their colleagues to agree that some people can only be brought to reason the hard , physical way ( 56 % vs. 41 % ) and to say they have become more callous toward people since taking this job ( 77 % vs. 50 % ) .
The public closely tracked the sudden death of pop superstar Michael Jackson last week , though nearly two-in-three Americans say news organizations gave too much coverage to the story . At the same time , half say the media struck the right balance between reporting on Jackson 's musical legacy and the problems in his personal life . With reports about Jackson 's June 25th death in Los Angeles dominating media coverage at week 's end , 30 % say they followed these stories very closely . A similar share ( 31 % ) say this was the story they followed more closely than any other , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted June 26 - 29 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press .
In the Philippines , South Korea and Japan , Obama 's efforts to deepen security and economic ties with the U.S. are likely to find a receptive audience . When asked which is more important , having strong ties with China or the U.S. , most of those surveyed in these three countries said the latter . In contrast , half of Malaysians volunteered that it 's equally important to maintain strong ties with both major powers . America 's overall ratings are significantly higher than China 's in Japan , South Korea and the Philippines . This is especially true in Japan , where 69 % had a favorable view of the U.S. , while only 5 % said the same about China . Ratings for the U.S. were overwhelmingly positive in the Philippines and South Korea , while China received mixed reviews in both countries . Malaysia is again the exception : A narrow majority of Malaysians had a favorable opinion of the U.S. , but roughly eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) gave China a positive rating .
Nonetheless , there is every indication that the public not only sees the problem of inequality , but is finding it more difficult to get ahead . The number of Americans who believe there is plenty of opportunity to get ahead through hard work has declined by 16 percentage points since the turn of the century , according to Gallup . Pew Research Center surveys also find a significant decline over this period in the share of Americans thinking that hard work leads to success .
Public interest in news about the economy remains high relative to other top stories of the week . Last week , 39 % of Americans followed news about the U.S. economy very closely and 26 % said it was the story they followed more closely than any other , making it the public 's top news item .
Among supporters of the health care bills , 86 % say expanding health coverage to the uninsured is a major reason for their support and 84 % cite assuring that no one is denied coverage because they have pre-existing conditions as a major reason . About seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) say the current system costs too much and 64 % say insurance companies doing a bad job are major reasons for their support .
Large majorities of U.S. Catholics have admired Pope Francis throughout his tenure , but there are growing signs of discontent . In 2014 , 54 % of American Catholics gave Francis `` excellent '' or `` good '' marks for his handling of the church 's sex abuse scandal . But in a Pew Research Center poll conducted in September 2018 – shortly after recent reports about sex scandals in the U.S. Catholic Church – the share of Catholics saying this had fallen 23 points , to 31 % . The recent survey also found that the pontiff 's overall approval rating among U.S. Catholics had dropped to 72 % , down from 84 % in January of this year .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted March 25 - 29 among 1,500 adults , finds that supporters of legalizing the use of marijuana are far more likely than opponents to say they have changed their mind on this issue . When asked , in their own words , why they favor or oppose legalizing marijuana , people on opposite sides of the issue offer very different perspectives . But a common theme is the danger posed by marijuana : Supporters of legalization mention its perceived health benefits , or see it as no more dangerous than other drugs . To opponents , it is a dangerous drug , one that inflicts damage on people and society more generally . The most frequently cited reasons for supporting the legalization of marijuana are its medicinal benefits ( 41 % ) and the belief that marijuana is no worse than other drugs ( 36 % ) –with many explicitly mentioning that they think it is no more dangerous than alcohol or cigarettes . With four states and Washington , D.C. having passed measures to permit the use of marijuana for personal use , 27 % of supporters say legalization would lead to improved regulation of marijuana and increased tax revenues . About one-in-ten ( 12 % ) cite the costs and problems of enforcing marijuana laws or say simply that people should be free to use marijuana ( 9 % ) .
Republicans and Democrats also strongly disagree on the role of taxes in addressing the gap between the rich and the poor . About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 71 % ) favor a policy of low taxes on the wealthy and corporations to encourage investment and economic growth as a means of reducing inequality . The same number of Democrats ( 71 % ) back high taxes on the rich and companies to support programs that help the poor . A plurality of independents ( 48 % ) also favor high taxes .
The 2008 presidential campaign dominated the national news last week , driven in large part by the lively Democratic debate in Philadelphia . Public interest in the campaign was up somewhat from previous weeks with 27 % of Americans paying very close attention to campaign news . More than one-in-five named the campaign as the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . This placed the campaign on par with the war in Iraq as one of the week 's two most closely followed stories . Democrats paid much closer attention to the campaign than Republicans : 36 % of Democrats vs. 23 % of Republicans followed campaign news very closely . Public interest in the Iraq war remained high despite relatively little news coverage More than three-in-ten Americans followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely and 20 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . Coverage of the Iraq policy debate has fallen off dramatically since September , and public interest in the debate continues to lag behind interest in the war itself . Last week 21 % of the public paid very close attention to the debate in Washington over U.S. policy in Iraq ; 5 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week .
Currently , there are modest differences in outlook by levels of educational attainment . Those with some college experience are somewhat less likely to say they have a lot of confidence in the future of the U.S. than are both those with more and less education . The shares who say they have a lot of confidence are down significantly since 2015 among postgraduates ( 13 points ) , college graduates ( 8 points ) and those with some college experience ( 7 points ) . There has been no significant shift in outlook among those with no more than a high school diploma .
Workers ' education level is a key determinant of whether they hold jobs that may be teleworked . In February , 62 % of workers with a bachelor 's degree or more education had jobs that could be performed remotely . That is nearly double the share among workers who had completed some college education ( 33 % ) , including an associate degree , and almost triple the share among high school graduates who did not go to college ( 22 % ) . Few workers who did not graduate from high school ( 9 % ) had the option to telework .
In December 2008 , 71 % of Americans approved of Barack Obama 's cabinet choices , and 58 % expressed positive views of George W. Bush 's high-level appointments in January 2001 , prior to his inauguration . Similarly , higher shares approved of the way that both Obama ( 72 % ) and Bush ( 50 % ) explained their policies and plans for the future than say that about Trump today .
In general , immigrants are more downbeat . For example , 62 % of Latino immigrants say Latinos have been more hurt by the bad economy than other groups , compared with 45 % of the native born who say the same . Just 16 % of immigrants say their economic situation is `` excellent '' or `` good , '' compared with 32 % of the native born . And 63 % of immigrants say they expect their financial situation and that of their family to improve in the coming year , compared with 71 % of the native born .
Trump is by far the top reason for pessimism among the 56 % of Democrats who expect this year to be worse than last year . About four-in-ten Democrats ( 43 % ) say 2019 will be worse than 2018 and cite Trump as the main reason ; another 16 % cite the government shutdown , while 13 % cite political instability or the country 's political divisions .
For the first time in decades , the non-marital birth rate in the U.S. has been declining , according to a new report from the National Center for Health Statistics . The rate peaked in 2008 at about 52 babies per 1000 unmarried women of childbearing age , before dropping to 45 births in 2013 . Like declines in overall fertility that have occurred since 2007 , it 's quite likely that this recent decline in the non-marital birth rate also occurred as a result of the economic recession of 2007 - 2009 . Will the non-marital birth rate continue to drop as the economy slowly recovers ? It 's difficult to know , but many experts believe that overall fertility will bounce back as the economy improves , as has been the case with past recessions — and indeed , the sharp fertility declines that occurred during the recession have already begun leveling off , and it appears as though non-marital birth rates may be following the same course .
In recent years , Americans ' views of Russia have deteriorated . As recently as 2011 , about half of Americans ( 49 % ) voiced a favorable opinion of Russia , but in 2015 , just 22 % express such sentiments . Russian views of the U.S. have fallen off even faster and further . In 2013 , 51 % of Russians had a positive assessment of the U.S. ; in 2015 , only 15 % do .
Obama voters took a leading role engaging in online political activism this election cycle .
About half of Americans ( 52 % ) say they prefer a bigger government providing more services , while 45 % say they prefer a smaller government providing fewer services . Men are nearly evenly divided , with about half ( 51 % ) preferring a smaller government and a similar share ( 48 % ) preferring a larger government . Among women , a majority ( 56 % ) prefer a bigger government , while four-in-ten prefer a smaller government . White adults are much more likely than Black or Hispanic adults to prefer a smaller government providing fewer services . There are notable differences among age groups , as well : More than six-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 ( 64 % ) prefer a bigger government , as do a narrower majority of 30 to 49-year-olds ( 56 % ) . Adults ages 50 to 64 are evenly divided , while those 65 and older are the only age group in which a majority ( 55 % ) prefer a smaller government . Republicans and Democrats are sharply divided in their views of the size of government . About three-quarters of Republicans ( 74 % ) say they prefer a smaller government providing fewer services . A nearly identical share of Democrats ( 76 % ) say they prefer a bigger government providing more services . Among conservative Republicans , more than eight-in-ten ( 83 % ) prefer a smaller government that provides fewer services ; an identical share of liberal Democrats prefer a larger government that provides more services .
The Zika virus has become a concern to many Americans , and its emergence fits into a broader pattern of public concern that the number of infectious disease threats to people 's health has grown in the past generation . Some 51 % of adults say there are more infectious disease threats today than there were 20 years ago .
In general , the public rejects by a wide margin the idea of holding U.S. Muslims to increased scrutiny because of their religion . About six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) say Muslims living in the United States should not be subject to additional scrutiny solely because of their religion ; 32 % say Muslims should be subject to more scrutiny than people in other religious groups .
Last week , both news coverage and the public 's news interests were dominated by the economic crisis and the backlash against the AIG bonuses . While 35 % said that news about the economy was the story they followed most closely , and 29 % named AIG as their top story , other news developments were overshadowed . The Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism found that these stories also accounted for most news coverage last week ( 30 % AIG and 23 % for other elements of the economy ; yielding a total for economic coverage of 53 % ) . Barack Obama 's appearance on the Tonight Show , where he spoke at length about AIG and the economy , was followed very closely by 16 % of the public and was the top story of the week for 4 % of Americans . News organizations devoted 2 % of the newshole to Obama 's late night appearance . News about the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan continue to attract modest interest from the public . Last week , one-in-four Americans followed the situation in Iraq very closely and 5 % said it was the story they followed more closely than any other . The military effort in Afghanistan also was followed very closely by 24 % . This was the top story of the week for 4 % of the public . The media devoted 1 % of the newshole each to events in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Republicans have grown increasingly skeptical of free trade . About two-thirds of Republicans and Republican-leaning registered voters ( 68 % ) say free trade has been a bad thing for the U.S. , while only 24 % say it has been good for the country . These views , which have shifted starkly since May 2015 , when 51 % of Republican voters said free trade was a good thing for the U.S. and 39 % said it was bad , came as President-elect Trump criticized free trade throughout the 2016 election cycle . Democrats , on the other hand , remain largely positive about free trade .
The United Nations is bringing together world leaders on Tuesday to focus on the challenge of climate change . In the U.S. , a solid majority believe there is evidence that global warming is happening , but they do not rank global climate change as one of the top threats facing the country . Last month , nearly half of Americans ( 48 % ) rated global climate change as a major threat — well behind concerns such as the militant group ISIS ( 67 % ) , Iran 's nuclear program ( 59 % ) and North Korea 's nuclear program ( 57 % ) . In an international survey of 39 publics last year , Americans were among the least concerned about climate change threatening their country .
Education is also tied to views about how the pandemic will shape America 's role in international affairs . In general , Americans who have completed higher levels of education are more likely to think the country 's global influence will recede . For example , 45 % of those with postgraduate degrees think the U.S. 's global position will decline after the pandemic , compared with just 21 % of those with a high school diploma or less .
On the negative side , half or more in 10 countries think Americans are arrogant and many say they are greedy . And half or more in Australia , Greece , the UK , Spain , Canada and China say Americans are violent .
Most Spaniards are discontent with the state of their country 's economy , but less so than in the past . Roughly four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they think the economic situation in Spain is at least somewhat good , while a majority ( 57 % ) says it is bad . This is an improvement from last year , and it also represents substantial improvement since 2013 , when the share who thought the Spanish economy was good was only 4 % . It also shows Spaniards ' optimism about the economy rebounding toward pre-recession levels .
French Muslims do share many opinions with their co-religionists in neighboring countries . Primary among them is concern about joblessness . More than half of French Muslims ( 52 % ) say they are very worried about unemployment among Muslims — the primary complaint of last fall 's rioters — and an additional 32 % say they are somewhat concerned . These levels are comparable to those expressed by Spanish , German and , to a slightly lesser degree , by British Muslims . ( Curiously , among French Muslims , only 48 % of those under age 35 say they are very worried about unemployment compared with 59 % of their elders . )
Trust is an essential elixir for public life and neighborly relations , and when Americans think about trust these days , they worry . Two-thirds of adults think other Americans have little or no confidence in the federal government . Majorities believe the public 's confidence in the U.S. government and in each other is shrinking , and most believe a shortage of trust in government and in other citizens makes it harder to solve some of the nation 's key problems . As a result , many think it is necessary to clean up the trust environment : 68 % say it is very important to repair the public 's level of confidence in the federal government , and 58 % say the same about improving confidence in fellow Americans .
Those divisions are exceptionally close , and have been since 2009 , according to a series of surveys by the Pew Research Center . For many years beforehand , clear majorities of Americans had said it was more important to control gun ownership than to protect the rights of gun owners . But the gap between those two positions narrowed sharply in 2009 and has largely remained that way : In the 12 times we 've asked the question since April of that year , only twice ( in the wake of the school shootings in Newtown , Conn. ) has the difference between the gun-rights and gun-control positions exceeded five percentage points . In the most recent survey , from May , 50 % said gun control was more important and 48 % said protecting gun rights was .
Barack Obama 's image remains , by comparison , more positive – 50 % offer a favorable assessment of the president , 45 % an unfavorable one . Even so , Obama 's personal ratings are lower than most presidential candidates in recent elections . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted July 16 - 26 , 2012 , among 2,508 adults , including 1,956 registered voters , finds that , in keeping with his favorability advantage , Obama continues to hold a sizable lead over Romney in the election contest . Currently , 51 % say they support Obama or lean toward him , while 41 % support or lean toward Romney . This is largely unchanged from earlier in July and consistent with polling over the course of this year . Across eight Pew Research Center surveys since January , Obama has led Romney by between four and 12 percentage points .
For many years , there 's been a saying among caucus-watchers that `` there are only three tickets out of Iowa . '' That refers to the fact that since 1972 ( and excluding years when incumbent presidents ran unopposed for renomination ) , the eventual nominee has nearly always been one of the top three finishers in the caucuses . The exceptions were Bill Clinton , who placed fourth in 1992 , and John McCain , who came in fourth in 2008 . Both of those were special cases , though : In 1992 Iowa 's own Sen. Tom Harkin was the overwhelming caucus favorite , so the other Democratic contenders mostly ignored the state . And McCain was just 424 votes behind third-place finisher Fred Thompson .
A majority of parents also report that their phone can get in the way of spending quality time with their children . Roughly seven-in-ten parents ( 68 % ) say they are at least sometimes distracted by their smartphone , with 17 % saying this happens often .
An estimated 5.6 million Hispanics of Puerto Rican origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Puerto Ricans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Puerto Rican origin and lived in the 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia ; this includes those who were born in Puerto Rico and those who trace their family ancestry to Puerto Rico . Since 2000 , the Puerto Rican-origin U.S. population has increased 65 % , growing from 3.4 million to 5.6 million over the period . At the same time , the population of those born in Puerto Rico and living in the 50 states and D.C. grew by 27 % , from 1.3 million in 2000 to 1.6 million in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 .
In most of the 11 countries surveyed , a majority of adults report using at least one of the seven social media platforms or messaging apps included in this survey : Facebook , WhatsApp , Twitter , Snapchat , Instagram , Viber and Tinder . Social media use is especially common in Lebanon , Jordan , Colombia and Mexico , where about three-quarters or more use at least one of these services . Kenya and India are the only countries where a majority of adults do not use at least one of these social media or messaging services .
However , a recent Pew Research Center survey finds that many people in these nations remain relatively disconnected from politics . Although most vote in elections , few take part in other forms of political participation . For example , across 33 nations surveyed , a median of just 15 % say they have participated in a protest and only 9 % have signed a petition . Indeed , large numbers say they would never engage in the various forms of participation included in the poll . Voting is considered the most useful form of participation on the survey : A median of 75 % say it is an effective way to influence what government does . No other type of engagement is considered effective by more than 50 % , although many do consider as effective attending campaign events , participating in protests and being a member of a political organization . Young people are more likely than their older counterparts to believe that many forms of political participation are effective , and in particular they are often more likely to say protesting is an effective way to influence government .
Republicans hold a 49 % -40 % lead over the Democrats in leaned party identification among whites . The Democrats hold an 80 % -11 % advantage among blacks , and lead by more than two-to-one among Hispanics ( 56 % -26 % ) . Asian Americans also lean Democratic by a wide margin ( 65 % -23 % ) . This data for Asian Americans is based on interviews conducted in English . Back to top
Women have seen steady growth in labor force participation over the past several decades , but that too has leveled off . In 2017 , 57 % of working-age women ( ages 16 and older ) were either employed or looking for work . That 's higher than it was in 1980 ( 51 % ) but down somewhat from its peak of 60 % in 1999 . Men 's presence in the labor force has been on the decline in recent decades . In 1980 , 77 % of working-age men ( ages 16 and older ) were employed or looking for work ; in 2017 , 69 % were in the labor force .
Following a White House security breach and reports of other Secret Service problems , roughly equal shares of the public think the recent issues are mainly isolated incidents ( 42 % ) as think they are signs of broader problems with the agency ( 43 % ) . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 2 - 5 among 1,007 adults , shows that Republicans are more likely to see these episodes as signs of broader Secret Service problems ( 54 % ) than mainly isolated incidents ( 35 % ) . Among Democrats , about half ( 51 % ) say the occurrences were mainly isolated , while 38 % think they are signs of broader problems . Those who paid close attention last week to Secret Service problems and the resignation of Director Julia Pierson are the most likely to see signs of broader agency problems . Among the 21 % who closely followed the reports , six-in-ten ( 60 % ) say the incidents show signs of broader problems and just one-third ( 33 % ) see them as mainly isolated . About a quarter each of Democrats ( 27 % ) and Republicans ( 24 % ) followed news about Secret Service security problems very closely , compared with 15 % of independents .
When it comes to race and ethnicity , trends in social media adoption are defined by similarities , not differences . Whites , African-Americans and Hispanics have broadly adopted social media at the same brisk pace . In 2005 , 6 % of African-Americans , 7 % of whites and 10 % of Hispanics used social networking sites . Today , those figures stand at 56 % of African-Americans and 65 % of both whites and Hispanics .
Trouble with the law : Overall juvenile arrest rates have fallen by more than half after peaking in the mid-1990s , according to the federal Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention . In 2012 , nearly four of every 100 youths ( ages 10 to 17 ) were arrested , down from about 8.5 per 100 in 1996 . However , while all racial subgroups contributed to the decline ( the OJJDP does n't report separately on Hispanics ) , the arrest rate for black youths is still more than twice that of any other group .
The Center 's projections indicate that nearly one in five Americans ( 19 % ) will be foreign born in 2050 , well above the 2005 level of 12 % , and also surpassing the historic peaks for immigrants as a share of the U.S. population—14.8 % in 1890 and 14.7 % in 1910 . ( Figure 2 )
Diminished interest in the presidential campaign reflects not only changing views about the tone and content of the campaign but also declining news coverage of the presidential race . While media coverage of the campaign has fluctuated from week to week based on events , the overall amount of coverage is considerably less now than in February and March . During the month of February , national news organizations devoted , on average , nearly half of their weekly coverage to the campaign , according to the Project for Excellence in Journalism 's ( PEJ ) News Coverage Index . In March , that average fell to below 40 % .
The decrease in household income from 2009 to 2011 almost exactly equaled the decrease in income in the two years of the recession . During the Great Recession , the median U.S. household income ( in 2011 dollars ) dropped from $ 54,489 in 2007 to $ 52,195 in 2009 , a loss of 4.2 % . By this yardstick , the recovery from the Great Recession is bypassing most of the nation 's households . The current `` recovery '' is also the most negative for household income during any post-recession period in the past four decades . However , the failure of household incomes to regain ground two years into an economic recovery is not without precedent . U.S. households also experienced lingering losses during the recoveries from the 1990 - 91 and 2001 recessions—median household income fell by 1.3 % in the first two years following the end of each of those two recessions . But those losses were less than half as great as the decrease of 4.1 % in the first two years of the current economic recovery . Read More
Technology use among foreign-born Latinos continues to lag significantly behind that of their U.S.-born counterparts , according to a new analysis of survey data from the Pew Hispanic Center . The nativity differences are especially pronounced when it comes to internet use . While 85 % of native-born Latinos ages 16 and older go online , only about half ( 51 % ) of foreign-born Latinos do so .1 When it comes to cell phones , 80 % of native-born Latinos use one , compared with 72 % of the foreign born .
In contrast to news about jobs , two-thirds ( 66 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy generally , a number little changed in recent months . Close to three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say the economic news they have been hearing has been mostly bad , while 6 % say it has been mostly good . Those numbers also are little changed .
Just 21 % of Americans rate the economy as excellent ( 2 % ) or good ( 19 % ) , with a 45 % plurality saying national economic conditions are `` only fair . '' One-in-three ( 33 % ) say the economy is `` poor . '' These ratings are little changed over the last few months .
In Pew Research Center polling in 2004 , Americans opposed same-sex marriage by a margin of 60 % to 31 % . Support for same-sex marriage has steadily grown over the past 15 years . And today , support for same-sex marriage remains near its highest point since Pew Research Center began polling on this issue . Based on polling in 2019 , a majority of Americans ( 61 % ) support same-sex marriage , while 31 % oppose it .
Among voters who report attending religious services at least once a month , relatively few say information on political parties or candidates was made available to them in their places of worship ( 14 % ) , and even fewer say they were encouraged to vote in a particular way by their clergy ( 5 % ) . Similarly , very few voters overall say they were contacted by religious organizations about the election ( 6 % ) . Catholic and white evangelical Protestant voters are somewhat more likely than white mainline Protestant voters to say information related to the election was available in their places of worship . Roughly one-in-five Catholics who attend Mass at least monthly ( 22 % ) say information on political parties or candidates was made available in their parishes this year , while 16 % of white evangelical Protestants who attend church monthly say this . By comparison , only 5 % of white mainline Protestants who attend church monthly received election-related information through their places of worship . ( Other religions are not included in this analysis because of insufficient sample sizes . )
As violence and chaos spreads in Iraq , the public is wary of U.S. involvement in the country . A 55 % majority says the United States does not have a responsibility to do something about the violence in Iraq ; 39 % do see a responsibility to act .
About half of 2.2 million people who sought asylum in Europe during the 2015 and 2016 refugee surge were still in limbo at the end of 2016 and did not know if they would be allowed to stay . Among Europe 's asylum seekers waiting on decisions as of the end of 2016 , an estimated two-thirds had not had a decision made on their case – and another third ( about 385,000 ) were appealing their first decision after being rejected . For asylum seekers from certain countries , the share waiting was much higher than the share approved . For example , an estimated 89 % of Albanian applicants between 2015 and 2016 were waiting to know their status in Europe at the end of 2016 .
In Russia proper , the public also sees the matter as closed . More than eight-in-ten Russians ( 84 % ) think the March 16th referendum was fair and even more ( 89 % ) say Kyiv ought to validate the results , according to a new Pew Research survey in Russia , conducted among 1,000 randomly selected adults between April 4 - 20 . The same survey finds that majorities of Russians ( 61 % ) agree that there are parts of neighboring countries that belong to Russia , and that the collapse of the Soviet Union was a great tragedy ( 55 % ) . While the poll did not explicitly ask Russians whether they supported the Kremlin taking military action to protect ethnic Russians in Ukraine , nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) agree that military action is sometimes necessary to maintain order in the world .
There is a broad public consensus regarding the causes of the current problems with financial institutions and markets : 79 % say people taking on too much debt has contributed a lot to the crisis , while 72 % say the same about banks making risky loans . Far fewer say weak governmental regulation of financial institutions ( 46 % ) or other factors have contributed a lot to the recent problems .
This survey shows that three-quarters think it is acceptable for public health officials to make personal information that may be collected during the coronavirus outbreak available for use by infectious disease researchers , while smaller shares say the same about pharmaceutical companies ( 40 % ) , health insurance companies ( 40 % ) and state and local elected officials ( 37 % ) .
Trust in information from the EU and WHO , while relatively high overall , is even stronger among people with a college degree or higher . About three-quarters of Americans with a postgraduate degree ( 78 % ) or college degree ( 72 % ) say they can believe information coming from the EU about the coronavirus outbreak .
And while there are few long-term trends of opinion regarding individual gun policies , surveys have found a decrease in support for some of these proposals . An April 2013 ABC News/Washington Post survey found that 56 % favored a nationwide ban on assault weapons , down from 80 % two decades earlier . Gallup found that support for banning the possession of handguns fell 16 points between 1993 and 2014 .
Americans by and large believe social media companies are censoring political viewpoints they find objectionable . Roughly three-quarters of Americans ( 73 % ) think it is very or somewhat likely that social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints they find objectionable , including 37 % who say this is very likely . Larger shares in both parties think it 's likely that these sites engage in political censorship , but this belief is especially widespread among Republicans . Fully 90 % of Republicans say that social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints that they find objectionable – with 60 % saying this is very likely the case . By comparison , fewer Democrats believe this to be very ( 19 % ) or somewhat ( 40 % ) likely . Republicans – but not Democrats – are divided along ideological lines on the issue . Conservative Republicans are far more likely than moderate or liberal Republicans to say it is very likely that social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints they find objectionable ( 70 % vs. 44 % ) . Similar shares of moderate or conservative Democrats ( 20 % ) and liberal Democrats ( 18 % ) express this view .
Trump voters , who already were skeptical of the electoral process and prospects for an accurate vote count before the election in October , have become much more so since Biden 's victory . While a 59 % majority of all voters say elections in the United States were run and administered well , just 21 % of Trump supporters have a positive view of how elections were administered nationally . Among Biden supporters , 94 % say the elections were run and administered well .
The Hispanic population reached a new high of 55.4 million in 2014 ( or 17.4 % of the total U.S. population ) , an increase of 1.2 million ( 2.1 % ) from the year before . However , that 2.1 % rate continues a trend of slower growth that began in 2010 .
Among eight international concerns tested , the topmost on the minds of Filipinos is the threat of the Islamic militant group known as ISIS , whose affiliates operate in the southern parts of the island nation . Seven-in-ten say ISIS poses a major threat to the country . Filipinos are also worried about global climate change ( 65 % major threat ) and cyberattacks from other countries ( 64 % ) . Young people ages 18 to 29 are much more concerned about climate change ( 77 % ) and cyberattacks ( 71 % ) than are those ages 50 and older ( 58 % and 51 % respectively ) . About half of Filipinos are also worried about China 's power and influence , almost double the proportion who say Russia ( 26 % ) or the U.S. ( 25 % ) are a major threat .
Our goal in making this change is to ensure that all adults are adequately represented in Pew Research Center surveys . Although cellphone-only households are very common today , there are sizeable demographic differences between people living in cell-only households and those with landlines . For example , young adults , Hispanics , renters and the poor ( as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau 's poverty thresholds ) are all far more likely to be cell-only . To the extent that cell-only households are underrepresented in our samples , these groups are also underrepresented . In a typical Pew Research Center national telephone survey , a little more than half of respondents interviewed on a cellphone report that they have no landline telephone ; consequently , the share of all respondents who are cell-only depends heavily on how many total cellphone interviews are conducted . By raising the share of all interviews conducted on a cell phone to 65 % , we expect that about 37 % of our total sample will be cell-only – still short of the target of 46.5 % , but closer . But we are not ready to make that change just yet , for at least two reasons . One is that there remains a small share of the public that is not reachable by cellphone . In the newly released data from the National Center for Health Statistics , 7 % of adults live in households with a landline phone but no wireless phone . In addition , some people with landlines and cellphones may turn their cellphones on only to make calls or when they are expecting to be called . If these kinds of people are demographically different from those who are more easily reached on a cellphone , then the resulting sample will be less representative of the full population .
The overall education gap in views of the stakes of the 2018 midterms is driven largely by divides among those who support Democratic candidates for Congress in their district . Overall , 85 % of Democratic voters with a postgraduate degree say it really matters which party wins control of Congress this fall , compared with 67 % of Democratic voters with no college experience . There are no significant education divides among voters who support Republican candidates for Congress in their district . Younger voters are less likely than older voters to say the 2018 outcome really matters within both party coalitions . But Democratic voters ages 18 to 34 ( 65 % ) are more likely than their young Republican counterparts ( 51 % ) to select the highest importance option on the four-point scale .
This anger plays a large role in the high level of enthusiasm among Democratic voters . Fully 71 % of Democratic voters who describe themselves as `` angry '' at government say they are more enthusiastic about voting this year , compared with 45 % of those who are `` frustrated '' or `` basically content '' with government . Similarly , Democrats who register strong disapproval of the president are far more likely to be eager to vote than those with less strong views ( 58 % vs. 29 % enthusiastic ) . And 56 % of Democrats who say their congressional vote is a vote against the president express high enthusiasm about 2006 , compared with just 44 % who say Bush is not a factor in their vote .
Nearly nine-in-ten Black adults ( 87 % ) favor making it a crime for police to use chokeholds or strangleholds , including 74 % who do so strongly . This proposed policy is supported by 71 % of white adults and 75 % of Hispanic adults .
In addition to being dissatisfied with their political system , a median of 64 % across the 34 emerging and developing nations surveyed say that higher-income people have too much influence in their political system . Just 15 % say that those with high incomes do not have enough political power , and 11 % say they have the right amount . In contrast , most think middle- and lower-income people have too little influence on politics . A median of 56 % say that middle-income people do not have enough power , while 60 % say this about those with lower incomes .
The Republican Party 's image has grown more negative over the first half of this year . Currently , 32 % have a favorable impression of the Republican Party , while 60 % have an unfavorable view . Favorable views of the GOP have fallen nine percentage points since January . The Democratic Party continues to have mixed ratings ( 48 % favorable , 47 % unfavorable ) . The Democratic Party has often held an edge over the GOP in favorability in recent years , but its advantage had narrowed following the Republicans ' midterm victory last fall . Today , the gap is as wide as it has been in more than two years .
A clear majority of those surveyed in a March Pew Research survey disapprove ( 56 % ) of the provision in the 2010 Affordable Care Act that requires most individuals to have health insurance by 2014 or pay a penalty . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) approve of the mandate . The constitutionality of the requirement is a key component of the Supreme Court case expected to be decided by the end of June . The partisan divides remain stark over the health care law in general . In the April survey , 87 % of Republicans say they disapprove and 9 % approve of the law . Among Democrats , 74 % approve and 17 % disapprove . About half of independents ( 52 % ) disapprove , while 36 % approve . And the disparity is nearly as large in responses to questions about the health care mandate . About eight-in-ten Republicans ( 83 % ) disapprove of the mandate , while two-thirds of Democrats ( 66 % ) approve of it . A majority of independents opposes the mandate ( 60 % vs. 36 % ) .
Although TV remained the most popular source for election news , a growing share of voters opted to supplement their TV viewing by `` dual-screening '' with online sources : 37 % of voters who followed the election returns used both television and the web , up from 27 % in 2012 . Conversely , the share of voters who followed the election results only on television fell by 14 points ( from 65 % to 51 % ) . And although relatively few voters who tracked the returns said they did so only on the internet , that share has nearly doubled since 2012 : This year , around one-in-ten voters who followed the returns ( 11 % ) did so only online .
As 2014 begins and the midterm election campaigns heat up , about half of the public ( 51 % ) is especially looking forward to November 's congressional elections while 49 % are not looking forward to them . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 2 - 5 among 1,005 adults , finds that 58 % are looking forward to next month 's Winter Olympics in Sochi , Russia , while 42 % are not . A majority ( 55 % ) also is looking forward to next month 's Super Bowl . Among other upcoming events , just 24 % say they are looking forward to the Academy Awards while a comparable percentage ( 22 % ) is anticipating this summer 's World Cup soccer tournament .
Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of adults say scientists do not have a clear understanding , while 28 % say scientists have a clear understanding of the health effects . Those more likely to think scientists do not have a clear understanding of the health effects of GM crops include : women and older Americans . Non-Hispanic whites and blacks are more likely than Hispanics to say scientists do not have a clear understanding of this .
Americans are divided over whose responsibility it is to take care of displaced workers in the event of far-reaching job automation . Half of U.S. adults said that in the event that robots and computers are capable of doing many human jobs , it is the government 's obligation to take care of displaced workers , even if it means raising taxes substantially , according to the 2017 survey . A nearly identical share ( 49 % ) said that obligation should fall on the individual , even if machines have already taken many human jobs .
Americans followed news about the nation 's economy more closely than any other news last week amid new signs the pace of the recovery has slowed . A quarter of the public ( 25 % ) says their top story was reports about the condition of the U.S. economy , while 18 % say they followed news about the 2012 presidential election most closely , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted May 3 - 6 among 999 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . In a week when no single story dominated coverage , the presidential campaign accounted for 15 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . The drama unfolding in China over the fate of dissident Chen Guangcheng ranked second , accounting for 12 % . News about the economy made up 9 % . Despite heavy coverage of the China story , which has involved tense negotiations between the U.S. and China , public interest has been modest ; 15 % say they followed this story very closely , while 6 % say this was the news they followed most closely .
For the oldest caregivers , adult caregiving was particularly rewarding , but also more burdensome . Caregivers ages 75 and older said 82 % of their adult caregiving activities were very meaningful . This figure fell to 59 % among caregivers ages 60 to 74 and as low as 29 % among those ages 18 to 29 .
Two-thirds of Democratic voters ( 67 % ) say they are more enthusiastic than usual about voting , compared with 59 % of Republican voters . The share of Democratic voters who express greater enthusiasm about voting is substantially higher than at comparable points in three prior midterms , while enthusiasm among GOP voters is slightly higher than in September 2014 ( 52 % ) and about the same level as in October 2010 ( 57 % ) .
While majorities of nearly all Republican groups back substantially expanding the wall along the U.S. border with Mexico , those ages 18 to 49 are less likely to support this policy than those 50 and older ( 60 % compared with 83 % ) . And support for an expended border wall is significantly higher among conservative Republicans ( 81 % ) than among moderates and liberals ( 55 % ) . Opinions about expanding the U.S.-Mexico border wall vary more widely across groups . For instance , 45 % of whites favor expanding the wall , about twice the shares of blacks ( 22 % ) and Hispanics ( 20 % ) .
The controversial comments about rape and abortion made by Missouri Senate candidate Todd Akin drew limited public attention . One-in-four ( 25 % ) followed this story very closely , but another one-in-three ( 33 % ) say they did not follow this closely at all . Interest in the Akin controversy was most widespread among Democrats , 34 % of whom followed this very closely , compared with 25 % of Republicans and just 19 % of independents . There was no significant gender gap in the amount of attention given to Rep. Akin 's comments . A quarter of women and men ( 25 % each followed the story very closely .
As in the past , whites have a more positive view of race relations than do blacks or Hispanics . Currently , 40 % of whites say race relations are generally good , compared with 28 % of blacks and 33 % of Hispanics who say this .
The Mexican government deported 67,000 migrants in the first seven months of the current fiscal year , an increase from the prior year but far below other recent years . In the first seven months of fiscal 2006 , for example , Mexico deported 135,000 migrants , double the number recorded so far this fiscal year .
Views of events in Russia 's history differ by the level of confidence in President Vladimir Putin . Russians who trust Putin to do the right thing on the world stage are more likely than those who express no confidence to name World War II as the most important event of the past century ( 35 % vs 24 % ) . This may reflect Putin 's efforts to promote the war as a defining moment for the Russian nation . Among the small share who express no confidence in Putin , the top historical event is the dissolution of the Soviet Union ( 30 % ) , not World War II .
For much of Clinton 's first term , unemployment rates and public judgments of the president were not in close correspondence . Unemployment declined from above 7 % at the time he took office to 5.5 % by the end of 1994 . However , Clinton 's ratings were quite mixed for much of this time reflecting political difficulties ( the collapse of health care reform , and bitter fights over his crime bill and economic packages ) , as well as controversies over his past personal and financial involvements . However , Clinton 's ratings began to improve in the fall of 1995 as a result of a successful showdown with Newt Gingrich over a shutdown of the federal government . Unemployment remained low in 1996 , and Clinton 's ratings rose .
Fewer people express confidence in Trump than in other world leaders . Of the five world leaders asked about in the survey , German Chancellor Angela Merkel gets the most positive rating , with a median of 46 % expressing confidence in her handling of world affairs . Only around three-in-ten express confidence in Trump ( 29 % ) – similar to the share who voice confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping ( 28 % ) . However , the share of people who express no confidence in Trump is higher ( 64 % ) than it is for all of the other world leaders asked about .
Younger adults are more likely to report feeling emotional distress as the pandemic unfolds . A March survey asked people if they had experienced five different types of psychological distress in the past seven days , including anxiety , sleeplessness , depression and loneliness . Adults 18 to 29 were more than twice as likely to fall into the `` high distress '' category than those 65 and older ( 33 % vs. 15 % ) . A repeat of that question in late April showed a similar pattern . The other categories were `` medium distress '' and `` low distress . ''
Americans ' views on abortion have remained relatively steady in recent years . But 40 years after Roe v. Wade , the legal battles over abortion are far from over . In fact , there has been a substantial amount of activity at the state level , particularly in parts of the Southern and Midwestern U.S. , where , according to a July Pew Research Center poll , there is greater opposition to abortion rights among the general public .
The balance of party identification among African American voters has remained relatively stable in recent years ; the Democrats now hold a 72 % to 4 % advantage , virtually unchanged from 2004 . White voters now are as likely to identify with the Democratic Party as with the GOP ( 31 % ) . This represents a significant shift from four years ago , when white voters called themselves Republicans by a 38 % to 29 % margin .
Partisans differ sharply over which level of government bears the responsibility for COVID-tests : A sizable majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 78 % ) say this responsibility primarily falls on the federal government , with 28 % saying it is entirely responsible for making sure there are enough tests . A smaller majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 57 % ) say this is primarily the responsibility of state governments .
Young Latino adults in the United States are more likely to be in school or the work force now than their counterparts were in previous generations . In 1970 , 77 % of Hispanics ages 16 to 251 were either working , going to school or serving in the military ; by 2007 , 86 % of Latinos in this coming-of-age group were taking part in these skill-building endeavors , according to a comprehensive analysis of four decades of Census Bureau data by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center .
Spanish-language television reached a new milestone in America . Univision finished first among broadcast networks during July sweeps in two highly sought-after demographics : 18- to 49-year-olds and 18- to 34-year-olds . According to Nielsen , between June 27 , 2013 , and July 24 , 2013 , Univision averaged 1.8 million viewers ages 18 to 49 nightly , beating out English-language networks FOX , NBC , CBS and ABC , all of which have been struggling with declining audiences for decades .
A median of 71 % in the region have a favorable view of Japan , with positive views exceeding negative sentiment by more than five-to-one . A median of 57 % voice a favorable opinion of China . Roughly half ( 51 % ) see India in a positive light . And just under half ( 47 % ) give South Korea a thumbs-up , in part due to a higher proportion of those surveyed who express no opinion . Nevertheless , favorable views of South Korea outweigh negative sentiment by two-to-one .
Among Republicans and Republican leaners , significantly more say abortion should be illegal ( 62 % ) than legal ( 36 % ) in all or most cases . Republicans are deeply split on this question by ideology : 77 % of conservative Republicans say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases ; just 22 % say it should be legal . By contrast , 57 % of moderate and liberal Republicans think abortion should be legal in all or most cases , compared with a smaller share ( 41 % ) who say it should be illegal .
As debates over abortion continue in states around the country , a majority of Americans ( 61 % ) continue to say that abortion should be legal in all ( 27 % ) or most ( 34 % ) cases . A smaller share of the public ( 38 % ) says abortion should be illegal in all ( 12 % ) or most cases ( 26 % ) .
Donald Trump is widely seen as having little or no respect for Muslims , women , Hispanics and blacks . Moreover , 56 % of registered voters say that Trump has little or no respect for the `` nation 's democratic institutions and traditions , '' compared with 43 % who say he has a great deal or fair amount of respect for democratic institutions and traditions .
Since Trump has taken office , Democrats have been more likely than Republicans to say they feel angry toward the federal government . Today , a quarter of Democrats ( 25 % ) say this compared with 18 % of Republicans . Levels of anger toward the federal government have fallen significantly among Republicans since the end of Obama 's administration . In early 2016 , a third of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 33 % ) said they felt angry toward the federal government . Today , fewer Republicans express anger at the federal government ( 18 % ) . Most say they feel frustrated ( 55 % ) , while 24 % say they are content . Over the same period , Democrats have grown more likely to say they are angry . In 2016 , 11 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners said they felt this way toward the federal government . Today , more than twice as many Democrats say they feel angry ( 25 % ) . Still , frustration remains the predominant feeling toward government among Democrats : 59 % say they feel this way ; just 14 % say they are basically content .
No single story stands out in the most recent weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Oct. 20 - 23 , 2011 , among 1,009 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . While 15 % say the condition of the economy was their top story , about as many cite Gadhafi 's death ( 13 % ) , the release of wild animals in Ohio ( 13 % ) or news about the 2012 presidential candidates ( 13 % ) as the news they followed most closely . Another 12 % say their top story was President Obama 's announcement that he will withdraw all U.S. forces from Iraq by the end of 2011 ; 9 % say they followed news about the anti-Wall Street protests in New York and other cities most closely . Though it came late in the week , Gadhafi 's violent death topped news coverage , along with news about the 2012 presidential election . Each made up 17 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . News about the economy in general accounted for 12 % of coverage , not including 4 % devoted specifically to the Occupy Wall Street protests .
Same-sex marriage has the backing of a majority of U.S. adults . Same-sex marriage is another policy area where support surpassed opposition during the 2010s . As of this year , 61 % of Americans favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally . In 2015 , the U.S. Supreme Court issued its landmark Obergefell v. Hodges ruling , which established that same-sex couples have a constitutional right to marry .
When 91 % of the public thinks the country is on the wrong track , it 's usually a good sign for the opposition 's electoral hopes , and as Pakistan prepares for parliamentary elections on May 11 , supporters of two major opposition parties are feeling optimistic . Moreover , as a new Pew Research Center poll highlights , the leaders of those two parties are getting positive reviews from the public .
Despite persistent economic pessimism , however , the public remains bullish about the ability of the American people to overcome challenges . Nearly seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) agree that `` As Americans , we can always find a way to solve our problems and get what we want . '' While that is largely unchanged from 2009 ( 70 % ) , it is up 11 points since 2007 ( 58 % ) . It also is about the same percentage that agreed with this statement in the first values survey ( 68 % ) .
While only 36 % of U.S. primary schools had officers on site , the vast majority of those schools ( 86 % ) reported that officers routinely carried a firearm . ( By comparison , 93 % of secondary schools with officers present said officers carried a firearm . ) Primary schools in cities were less likely than those in towns and rural areas to report that officers carried a firearm . Across all community types , 32 % of primary schools with officers present reported having formalized policies or written documents specifically about officers ' use of firearms .
Over the past year , the United States and China have slapped a series of escalating tariffs on one another , with the U.S. now taxing more than $ 250 billion worth of Chinese goods . Despite periodic , high-level meetings intended to defuse these trade tensions , results of a new Pew Research Center survey indicate Americans believe economic ties between China and the U.S. are poor . And , amid these economic concerns , unfavorable opinions of China have reached a 14-year high . Today , 60 % of Americans have an unfavorable opinion of China , up from 47 % in 2018 and at the highest level since Pew Research Center began asking the question .
When it comes to specific policy issues , Catholics are often more aligned with their political party than with the teachings of their church . On abortion , for example , 77 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning Catholic adults say they think abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 63 % of Republican and Republican-leaning Catholics say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases , according to a 2019 survey . This divide exists despite the Catholic Church 's formal opposition to abortion . On immigration , 91 % of Catholic Democrats oppose expanding the wall along the border between the U.S. and Mexico , while 81 % of Catholic Republicans favor expanding the wall , according to a separate 2019 survey . The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops has condemned Trump 's plan to build such a wall , and Pope Francis described the desire to build a border wall as `` not Christian . ''
Looking ahead , most Republicans want to see their party move in a more conservative direction . Nearly six-in-ten Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters ( 58 % ) say they want the GOP to move in a more conservative direction , compared with 38 % who want it to move in a more moderate direction . Republican views on their preferred ideological direction for the party are about the same as they have been following other recent midterm and presidential elections .
Many Democrats and Republicans associate negative characteristics with members of the other party – and positive traits with their own . Fully 70 % of Democrats say Republicans are more `` closed-minded '' than other Americans . Nearly as many Democrats ( 67 % ) say their fellow Democrats are more `` open-minded . '' For Republicans , no single critique of Democrats stands out . But about half of Republicans ( 52 % ) view Democrats as more closed-minded than other Americans , while nearly as many say Democrats are more immoral ( 47 % ) , lazier ( 46 % ) and more dishonest ( 45 % ) . Republicans also see the members of their own party as more hard-working ( 59 % ) and more moral ( 51 % ) than other Americans .
But for many U.S. Latinos , mixed-race identity takes on a different meaning – one that is tied to Latin America 's colonial history and commonly includes having a white and indigenous , or `` mestizo , '' background somewhere in their ancestry . When asked if they identify as `` mestizo , '' `` mulatto '' or some other mixed-race combination , one-third of U.S. Hispanics say they do , according to a 2014 Pew Research Center survey of Hispanic adults .
The simultaneous Oct. 1 shutdown of the federal government and launch of the health insurance exchange portion of the Affordable Care Act ( also known as Obamacare ) have become inextricably linked in the current partisan showdown in Washington . Almost a quarter of the conversation about the shutdown ( 23 % ) focused on who was to blame . And , by more than a 3:1 margin , the verdict was clear : In the discussion focused on finding fault , 77 % of the assertions on Twitter blamed Republicans in Congress while 23 % blamed Democrats in Congress or Obama .
About half or more in 16 of the 25 emerging markets surveyed say children in their nation will be better off financially than their parents , including at least seven-in-ten in Vietnam , China , Chile and Brazil . People in Middle Eastern emerging economies , however , are much more skeptical . In Jordan , Turkey , Egypt and Lebanon , roughly a third or fewer say the nation 's children will be better off financially than their parents . Poles are also considerably pessimistic about the next generation 's opportunities , an outlook which may be influenced by the economic crisis in the European Union . Developing economies are divided on this question . Roughly half or more in Bangladesh , Nicaragua , Senegal , Ghana and Uganda say their children will be more successful than the older generation . Fewer than four-in-ten agree in Tanzania , Kenya , El Salvador and the Palestinian territories . Publics in advanced economies are the most pessimistic . In most of the high income countries surveyed , three-in-ten or fewer say the nation 's children will surpass their parents financially . Majorities in eight of the 10 countries believe the younger generation will be worse off . The French , Japanese and British are particularly downbeat about the future . Nearly two-thirds of Americans say the same . In general , countries that have experienced higher economic growth since 2008 are more optimistic for the next generation than publics that have had less growth . For example , in China , which has experienced an average GDP growth of 9 % between 2008 and 2013 , 85 % of the public says young people will be better off financially than their parents . Meanwhile , Italians , who have seen their economy contract by an average of 2 % per year over the course of the global recession , are much less optimistic ( 15 % ) .
One-third of U.S. adults say medical health experts understand very well who is most at risk for serious illness from the coronavirus , and about half ( 52 % ) say they understand who is at risk fairly well . Another 15 % say that medical health experts understand who is most at risk from COVID-19 not too or not at all well . Assessments of public health experts are lower by comparison . Roughly one-quarter ( 23 % ) of U.S. adults say public health experts understand how to slow the spread of the coronavirus very well , half think public health experts understand this fairly well and another 26 % say experts understand this not too or not at all well .
Most of the major deficit reduction proposals under discussion meet with public disapproval . Particularly unpopular are provisions that would tax the health insurance people receive from their employers ( 72 % disapprove ) , raise the national gasoline tax ( 74 % disapprove ) , and reduce federal funding to states for things like education and roads ( 71 % disapprove ) . Of 12 ideas tested , just two meet with majority approval : increasing the amount of earned income that is subject to Social Security withholding ( 64 % approve ) and freezing the salaries of government workers ( 59 % approve ) ; the latter proposal is supported by President Obama and many Republicans .
A Pew Research Center survey of 2,003 American adults ( including 795 who are currently employed on a full- or part-time basis ) conducted Sept. 11 - 14 and 18 - 21 , 2014 , finds that social media plays some role in the lives of many American workers – but that role is not always clear-cut or entirely positive . As noted above , 17 % of workers say they use social media to build or strengthen personal relationships at work – but the transparency that social media facilitates comes with costs as well as benefits . Some 14 % of workers have found information on social media that has improved their professional opinion of a colleague ; at the same time , a similar share ( 16 % ) have found information on social media that has lowered their professional opinion of a colleague .
About 3.9 million kindergarten through 12th-grade students in U.S. public and private schools in 2014 – or 7.3 % of the total – were children of unauthorized immigrants , according to new Pew Research Center estimates based on government data . These estimates reflect an increase since the end of the Great Recession in 2009 , when such students numbered 3.6 million and accounted for 6.6 % of the total .
The nation 's voting population in 2018 was the most racially and ethnically diverse ever for a midterm election . Blacks , Hispanics and Asians accounted for a record 25.0 % of voters , up from 21.7 % in 2014 . Whites continue to make up the vast majority of voters ( 72.8 % ) and their overall numbers continue to grow . However , as a share of U.S. voters , the 3.5 percentage point drop among white voters since 2014 is one of the largest declines between midterms in decades .
In all four Western European countries surveyed , Obama outperformed not only McCain , but fellow Democrat Hillary Clinton as well ( when the poll was conducted , Sen. Clinton was still a viable candidate for the nomination ) . For instance , 84 % of the French who are following the race have confidence in Obama , compared with 60 % confident in Clinton . This suggests that Obama 's appeal among Europeans may be driven by more than just his party affiliation .
Pew Research surveys dating back 25 years , consistently show that the public , as a general proposition , likes political leaders who are willing to make compromises . In our April 2012 survey , fully 80 % said they wanted leaders who were willing to compromise to get things done and just 16 % disagreed . Democrats have always been more supportive of this idea than Republicans ( 90 % of Democrats last year wanted leaders who compromised ) , but about two-thirds of Republicans consistently express this desire as well ( 68 % ) .
The rise of online streaming services such as Netflix and HBO Go has dramatically altered the media habits of Americans , especially young adults . About six-in-ten of those ages 18 to 29 ( 61 % ) say the primary way they watch television now is with streaming services on the internet , compared with 31 % who say they mostly watch via a cable or satellite subscription and 5 % who mainly watch with a digital antenna , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in August . Other age groups are less likely to use internet streaming services and are much more likely to cite cable TV as the primary way they watch television . Overall , 59 % of U.S. adults say cable connections are their primary means of watching TV , while 28 % cite streaming services and 9 % say they use digital antennas . Among the other findings of the survey : The survey marks the latest in a number of Pew Research Center findings that show how much the internet and apps have shifted people 's access pathways to media and some types of content in recent years . The internet , for example , is now closing in on television as a source of news in the U.S. A generation ago , television was far and away the dominant news source for Americans , but now , the internet substantially outpaces TV as a regular news source for adults younger than 50 .
Only six women in 2007 held the title of president , chief operating officer and/or head of operations – typically the second-highest office in a corporation , and often seen as the CEO 's heir apparent . In 2017 , women in those roles had tripled in number , to 18 , but they still represented just 7.5 % of the total .
Latinos ' views of same-sex marriage have changed dramatically in recent years . In 2012 for the first time , more Latinos said they favored same-sex marriage than opposed it ( 52 % versus 34 % ) according to a Pew Hispanic Center survey . This is a reversal from six years earlier , when one-third ( 31 % ) of Latinos favored same-sex marriage and more than half ( 56 % ) opposed it . This shift in views tracks with that of the general public , whose opinions on same-sex marriage have also changed in recent years . But even though more Hispanics now favor same-sex marriage than oppose it , not all Hispanic groups hold the same view . According to the National Survey of Latinos , support for allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally is highest among Latino adults with no religious affiliation ( 71 % ) , Latinos ages 18 to 29 ( 68 % ) , Latinos who identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party ( 60 % ) and Latinos with some college education or more ( 63 % ) . By contrast , the strongest opposition to same-sex marriage comes from Evangelical Hispanics , 66 % of whom oppose allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally . Additionally , 60 % of Hispanics ages 65 and older and 51 % of Hispanics who identify with or lean toward the Republican Party oppose legalizing same-sex marriage .
About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of Republicans who agree with the Tea Party movement say there is a great deal of bias – at least twice the percentage as in any other political group , including non-Tea Party Republicans ( 33 % ) and liberal Democrats ( 36 % ) . Among news audiences , those who cite the Fox News Channel or the radio as their main source of campaign news are the most likely to say there is a great deal of bias in news coverage .
But on the specific benefits of trade , Germans and Americans are less convinced . For example , only about three-in-ten Germans and Americans say that trade increases wages . Just under four-in-ten in each country say trade with other countries creates jobs . And 32 % in Germany and 37 % in the U.S. say trade decreases prices , which is supposed to be one of the primary benefits of international trade .
Half of Americans say that their European allies should keep national defense spending at current levels , while 35 % say these allies should increase their defense spending . Only around one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say European allies should decrease their defense spending . Germans are more divided . Around four-in-ten favor increasing their own defense budget ( 40 % ) or keeping it the same ( 41 % ) , while 15 % support a decrease .
Many adult Facebook users have altered their use of the platform . A little over half of adult Facebook users in the U.S. ( 54 % ) have adjusted their privacy settings in the past 12 months , according to a separate Center survey conducted in May-June 2018 . The survey followed revelations that former consulting firm Cambridge Analytica had collected data on tens of millions of Facebook users without their knowledge or permission . About four-in-ten adult Facebook users ( 42 % ) have taken a break from checking the platform for several weeks or more , and about a quarter ( 26 % ) have deleted the app from their phone at some point in the past year . Combined , 74 % of adult Facebook users say they have taken at least one of these three actions .
Populist movements have ushered in new political actors on both sides of the Atlantic . Perhaps none is better known than the 45th president of the United States , Donald Trump . Among the foreign policy experts polled by Pew Research Center , nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) say they lack confidence in Trump to do the right thing regarding world affairs . A median of 76 % among the European and North American publics agree . Nearly as many foreign policy experts describe Trump as `` dangerous . '' A median of roughly seven-in-ten across the publics surveyed share this view .
Opinions of Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , are basically unchanged from last year . About as many say they have a favorable view ( 31 % ) as an unfavorable opinion ( 28 % ) of Netanyahu ; 41 % express no opinion of Israel 's prime minister .
A decade ago , 61 % of Republicans felt that the government could not afford to do more to help the poor . In the 2004 values survey , as many Republicans said the government should do more to help the poor , even if it means going deeper into debt , as felt that the government can not afford greater aid to the poor . The number of Democrats favoring increased aid to the poor also rose — from 59 % to 68 % .
California 's death row has grown by nearly 100 inmates , or 14 % , since January 2006 , when it carried out its last execution , and by 28 % since 2000 , according to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund , which tracks death row populations in all states . ( The most recent available data for all states are as of October 2018 . ) The increase reflects the fact that California juries have continued to sentence convicted defendants to death , even as executions themselves have been on hold in recent years amid legal and political disputes that predated Newsom 's formal moratorium . One stark reflection of the longtime suspension of capital punishment in California is that executions are the third most common cause of death for those on death row , following natural causes and suicide , according to data from the state 's corrections department . Just 15 of the 135 California death row inmates who have died since 1978 were executed .
The political and economic contexts in which people live help explain differences in state-level support for stricter environmental regulations . States that voted for Democratic candidate Barack Obama in the 2012 presidential election are more likely to say that stricter environmental regulations are worth the cost . For example , nearly seven-in-ten adults in Hawaii ( 68 % ) and Vermont ( 70 % ) hold this view , and both are states that backed Obama in the 2012 election by a wide margin . By contrast , those in states that voted for Republican candidate Mitt Romney in 2012 are more divided about the trade-off between the economy and environmental regulation . The linchpins of a state 's economy also can make a difference . A relatively low share of those living in states like Wyoming , Montana and West Virginia say that environmental regulations are worth the cost . All told , the extractive industry – including coal mining as well as oil and natural gas drilling – makes up 5 % or more of the state gross domestic product in 10 states across the nation . Opinions differ widely across these 10 states but , on average , fewer in such states see environmental regulations as worth the cost .
On balance , French adults who identify as Christian are slightly more likely than people who identify as religiously unaffiliated ( that is , atheist , agnostic or having no particular religion ) to agree with anti-Jewish stereotypes , and they are slightly less likely to say they would accept Jews as relatives and neighbors . For example , 88 % of Christians in France say they would accept Jews as neighbors , while 94 % of the religiously unaffiliated in France say this . Respondents identifying with right-wing political ideology are considerably more likely to agree with the negative statements about Jews . The survey did not reach enough Muslims – who constitute France 's third-largest religious group , after Christians and the religiously unaffiliated – to allow for a nationally representative sample of their views .
According to Pew Research Center estimates , the share of all foreign-born legal permanent residents who have become naturalized U.S. citizens rose to 56 % in 2011 , the highest level in three decades and an 18 percentage point increase since 1990 . That represents a population of 15.5 million naturalized citizens , an increase reflecting both a rise in the annual inflow of legal migrants and an increased likelihood that those who are eligible to apply for citizenship actually do so .
Recently , Americans said they had been starting to see the effects of the health care law in action . Those who said it has had a negative effect on the country overall outnumbered those who said it has been positive by 45 % to 33 % , according to a September survey . Just 18 % said the law had n't had much of an effect on the country .
In May , 18.8 % of Americans ages 65 and older , or nearly 9 million people , reported being employed full- or part-time , continuing a steady increase that dates to at least 2000 ( which is as far back as we took our analysis ) . In May of that year , just 12.8 % of 65-and-older Americans , or about 4 million people , said they were working .
The roughly 19.8 million naturalized citizens in 2015 made up about 44 % of the U.S. foreign-born population . Another roughly 11.9 million immigrants were lawful permanent residents , among whom an estimated 9.3 million were eligible to apply for U.S. citizenship . Mexican immigrants are the largest group of lawful immigrants : About 2.5 million Mexican immigrants held U.S. citizenship and another 3.5 million were eligible to naturalize . Mexican immigrants have long had among the lowest U.S. naturalization rates ( 42 % ) of any origin group . As of 2015 , the naturalization rate among eligible immigrants from Mexico was similar to those from Honduras ( 43 % ) and Guatemala ( 44 % ) .
By contrast , voters who do not have a college degree were more divided in their preferences : 41 % backed Trump , 36 % Clinton , 9 % Johnson and 5 % Stein . If the gap between Clinton and Trump holds in November , it will be the widest educational divide in any election in the last several decades . And the current gap is particularly pronounced among white voters . Among white voters in the current election , college graduates support Clinton over Trump by a 14-point margin ( 47 % Clinton vs. 33 % Trump ) , while those without college degrees back Trump over Clinton by an even larger 25-point margin ( 51 % Trump vs. 26 % Clinton ) , according to the Center 's survey conducted Aug. 9 - 16 .
First , at both a personal and societal level publics are generally more likely to say mobile phones have had a mostly good impact than to say the same of social media . A median of 70 % of adults across these 11 countries say mobile phones have been a mostly good thing for society , but that share falls to 57 % on the question of the impact of social media . Indeed , a median of 27 % think social media have been a mostly bad thing for society . Second , these publics are more likely to say that both mobile phones and social media have been mostly good for them personally than they are to say they have been mostly good for society . As noted above , an 11-country median of 70 % say that mobile phones have been mostly good for society . But an even larger share of 82 % say mobile phones have been mostly good for them personally . When it comes to social media , users of these sites are generally more likely to proclaim their benefits than non-users . Even among users , people 's views of their personal impact tend to be more positive than their views of their societal impact .
The public remains divided over whether or not a way can be found for Israel and an independent Palestinian state to coexist peacefully : 43 % say they think this can happen , while 48 % do not think so . In April , 46 % thought a two-state solution in the Middle East could work , while 44 % disagreed .
Of the referred cases in 2017 , asylum seekers from Haiti ( 8,286 ) had the most applications , followed by Nigeria ( 5,575 ) and Turkey ( 2,197 ) . No country saw a bigger increase in referred applications from 2016 to 2017 than Haiti , which had only 631 referred applications in 2016 . As a result , Haiti accounted for almost a third ( 32 % ) of Canada 's overall increase in referred asylum claims in 2017 .
Compared with gay men and lesbians , bisexuals have a different perspective on their sexual orientation and a distinct set of experiences , according to a 2013 Pew Research Center survey of nearly 1,200 lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender adults . Bisexuals are much less likely than gay men and lesbians to say that their sexual orientation is an important part of who they are . Only 20 % of bisexuals say being bisexual is extremely or very important to their overall identity . The shares of gay men ( 48 % ) and lesbians ( 50 % ) who say the same about their sexual orientations are much higher . ( Due to the small number of transgender adults in the survey , it 's not possible to break out their responses . However , they are included in the total LGBT shares reported here . )
In 1960 , about a fifth of the U.S. population were first- or second-generation immigrants . If present trends continue , by 2050 about 37 % of the population will be first- or second-generation immigrants – an even higher share than during the vast influx of immigrants from southern and eastern Europe in the late 1800s/early 1900s .
In the past 10 years , the share of U.S. adults living without a spouse or partner has increased . This rise in `` unpartnered '' Americans , from 39 % in 2007 to 42 % today , has been most pronounced among young adults : Roughly six-in-ten adults younger than 35 are now living without a spouse or partner . The share of `` unpartnered '' adults also has risen more sharply among those who are not employed .
About 275,000 babies were born to unauthorized-immigrant parents in 2014 , or about 7 % of the 4 million births in the U.S. that year , according to Pew Research Center estimates based on government data . This represented a decline from 330,000 in 2009 , at the end of the Great Recession .
Almost two-thirds of Americans say they are very ( 18 % ) or somewhat ( 47 % ) confident in the government 's ability to deal with the swine flu ; the remaining one third is not too ( 19 % ) or not at all ( 15 % ) confident in the government 's ability to handle the virus . People are less confident in the media 's ability to accurately report on the swine flu : Just more than half are very confident ( 17 % ) or somewhat confident ( 36 % ) in the press ' ability to cover swine flu , while 46 % have more doubts .
Americans last week followed news about the struggling economy and the resignation of Rep. Anthony Weiner from Congress more closely than other top stories , while the early stages of the 2012 presidential election led news coverage for this first time this year . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy most closely , while 16 % followed developments in the Weiner scandal that closely , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted June 16 - 19 among 1,003 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say news about the 2012 presidential election was their top story . Coverage of the potential candidates , driven in large part by the Republican debate in New Hampshire , accounted for 15 % of coverage , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Coverage of the economy made up 12 % of the newshole , while Weiner 's resignation accounted for 9 % . One week earlier , the Weiner story , including his acknowledgment that he had sent sexually-suggestive photos and messages online to at least six women , was the top story with 17 % of coverage .
In general , there are more women ( 54 % ) than men ( 46 % ) in the American Catholic population . This trend holds true in New York , where 58 % of Catholics are women . In Philadelphia , 57 % of Catholic adults are women and 43 % are men . And in Washington , D.C. , the gender split is an even 50 % -50 % .
Comparable proportions of Democrats who are college graduates ( 88 % ) and those with less education ( 82 % ) say that there is solid evidence that the earth is getting warmer . Among Democrats , higher education is associated with the belief that global warming is mostly caused by human activity . Fully 75 % of Democrats with college degrees say that the earth is warming and that this is caused by human activity . Just 52 % of Democrats with less education express this view . Among Republicans , similar percentages of college graduates and those with less education say there is solid evidence of global warming ( 46 % and 51 % , respectively ) . Yet for Republicans , unlike Democrats , higher education is associated with greater skepticism that human activity is causing global warming . Only 19 % of Republican college graduates say that there is solid evidence that the earth is warming and it is caused by human activity , while 31 % of Republicans with less education say the same .
Overall , 21 % of the public say they followed news about the potential presidential candidates very closely last week , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted June 30- July 3 among 1,001 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Interest has been at about this level for the past several months . At a comparable point in the presidential race four years ago , 20 % said they were very closely following news about the candidates hoping to represent their parties in the 2008 election . As is the case today , the level of interest fluctuated only slightly week to week in 2007 .
Conservative Republicans are more doubtful than others about motives behind climate research findings . Conservative Republicans are particularly likely to think research findings from climate scientists are influenced by the desire of scientists to advance their own careers and by their personal political leanings . About half or more of conservative Republicans say each of these two factors influences research findings most of the time . Minorities in the other party/ideology groups say either of these influence research findings most of the time .
Overall , there has been much more stability than change across the 48 political values measures that the Pew Research Center has tracked since 1987 . But the average partisan gap has nearly doubled over this 25-year period – from 10 percentage points in 1987 to 18 percentage points in the new study . With regard to the broad spectrum of values , basic demographic divisions – along lines such as gender , race , ethnicity , religion and class – are no wider than they have ever been . Men and women , whites , blacks and Hispanics , the highly religious and the less religious , and those with more and less education differ in many respects . However , these differences have not grown in recent years , and for the most part pale in comparison to the overwhelming partisan divide we see today .
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's approach to Pakistan is n't popular , but his handling of Kashmir is . Modi has shown a willingness to use both diplomacy and military force to engage Pakistan . But despite Modi 's overall popularity in India ( 88 % see him favorably ) , only 21 % of Indians approve of the way he is handling relations with Pakistan . This has stayed roughly constant since 2015 , when the question was first asked . In contrast , a clear majority ( 60 % ) of Indians approve of Modi 's approach toward Kashmir . Indians ages 18 to 29 are more likely to approve of Modi 's management of the Kashmir situation than those ages 50 and older ( 64 % versus 51 % ) .
Over the past two months , the outbreak of the novel coronavirus has had a devastating impact on nearly all aspects of life in the United States . And now , most Americans expect it will disrupt the presidential election in November . With just over six months until Election Day , two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) – including 80 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents and half of Republicans and Republican leaners – say it is very or somewhat likely that the coronavirus outbreak will significantly disrupt people 's ability to vote in the presidential election .
Mexican authorities apprehended nearly 92,000 migrants in the first seven months of fiscal 2019 , up 32 % from the same period the previous year . Still , this year 's total remains below the 141,000 apprehensions made during the same period in fiscal 2006 ( when the U.S. also experienced a surge of non-Mexican immigrant apprehensions at the southern border ) . It 's also far below the number of southern border apprehensions made by the U.S. government during the first seven months of fiscal 2019 . People from the Northern Triangle – El Salvador , Guatemala and Honduras – make up 85 % of migrants apprehended in Mexico so far in fiscal 2019 . Migrants from these countries have historically accounted for the most apprehensions in Mexico , but their share so far in the current fiscal year is the lowest in nearly two decades — 10 percentage points lower than in 2002 , when they made up 95 % of all apprehensions in Mexico . Mexican authorities have apprehended 43,000 migrants from Honduras so far this fiscal year , accounting for almost half ( 47 % ) of the total . The number of apprehended Honduran immigrants is up 63 % over the same period in fiscal 2018 . There have been fewer apprehensions of both Guatemalan ( 25,000 ) and Salvadoran ( 10,000 ) migrants in the first seven months of fiscal 2019 , however .
The public continues to support the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria . But most Americans say the U.S. military effort against ISIS is not going well , and just 30 % think the U.S. and its allies have a `` clear goal '' in taking military action . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 15 - 20 among 2,003 adults , finds that 57 % approve of the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria , while just 33 % disapprove . Support is highest among Republicans ( 68 % ) ; majorities of Democrats ( 54 % ) and independents ( 55 % ) also approve .
Nearly two-thirds describe relations between the U.S. and China as good , and most consider China a competitor rather than an enemy . At the same time , majorities say the U.S. can not trust China and that the Asian nation does not consider the interests of other countries when making foreign policy decisions . When it comes to dealing with China , as many say being tough with China on economic issues is a very important priority for the U.S. as say the same about building a strong bilateral relationship . In contrast to the general public , American foreign affairs experts are far less concerned about China 's rising power . With the exception of retired military officers , only about three-in-ten among the experts surveyed consider China 's emergence as a world power to be a major threat . Fewer than four-in-ten experts consider the U.S. trade deficit with China to be a very serious problem , compared with about six-in-ten of the broader public ; and even fewer experts express concern about the loss of U.S. jobs to China . Moreover , unlike the general public , experts are far more likely to support building a strong relationship with China than to back being tough with Beijing on economic issues .
In contrast to views of news about the oil spill , the public 's perceptions of economic news have not changed and remain far more negative than positive . Currently , 55 % say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about t he economy , while 38 % say the economic news they are hearing is mostly bad and just 4 % say they are hearing mostly good news about the economy . That is little changed from early July , when 54 % said they were hearing mixed news , and 42 % said they were hearing mostly bad news . In June , however , just 30 % said they were hearing mostly bad news and 65 % said the news was a mix of good and bad .
The proportion of American adults with high-speed broadband service at home increased rapidly between 2000 and 2010 . In recent years , however , broadband adoption growth has been much more sporadic . Today , roughly three-quarters of American adults have broadband internet service at home .
Americans are now more attached to their cellphones and internet access than their televisions or landline telephones , marking a shift in their communications habits since 2006 . Over half of internet users now say the internet would be `` very hard '' to give up . And among this devoted group , 61 % say the internet is essential to them , either for work or other reasons . Translated to the whole population , 39 % of all Americans feel they absolutely need to have internet access .
However , global publics mostly oppose another element of recent U.S. national security policy : the harsh interrogation methods used against suspected terrorists in the wake of 9/11 that many consider torture . A median of 50 % across 40 nations surveyed say they oppose these practices , which were detailed in a widely publicized U.S. Senate report in December 2014 . Only 35 % believe they were justified . Americans disagree – nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say they were justified . Overall , ratings for the U.S. remain mostly positive , with a global median of 69 % expressing a favorable opinion of the country . President Obama also remains popular in most countries , and his ratings have improved over the last year in 14 nations . The biggest gains are found in India , which the president visited in January . About three-in-four Indians ( 74 % ) now express confidence in Obama , compared with 48 % a year ago .
Among opponents of the health care bills , 84 % say too much government involvement in health care is a major reason for their opposition and 75 % say health care reform is too expensive for the country . Seven-in-ten cite possible cuts in Medicare and concern that their own health care may suffer as major reasons for their opposition . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) of opponents say the possibility of covering illegal immigrants is a major reason they oppose the bills and 58 % say a major reason is the possibility that government money might pay for abortions .
The public does not give Obama a strong vote of confidence on health care policy ; while 50 % have a great deal or some confidence in him , nearly as many ( 48 % ) express little or no confidence . However , just 32 % have at least some confidence in GOP leaders while about twice as many ( 66 % ) have little or no confidence in them on health policy .
Younger adults ' interest in soccer likely relates to higher participation rates than their parents ' generation . Participation in US Youth Soccer , the largest such national organization , jumped from about 100,000 in 1974 to 800,000 in 1980 to 3.02 million in 2000 . But participation has mostly stalled since then , and membership remains at 3.02 million ( while the American Youth Soccer Organization counts over 500,000 members ) .
One-in-five newsroom employees live in New York , Los Angeles or Washington , D.C . The financial , entertainment and political capitals of the U.S. are home to a disproportionately large share of the nation 's newsroom employees . About one-in-five newsroom employees ( 22 % ) live in these metro areas , which , by comparison , are home to 13 % of all U.S. workers , according to a Center analysis of Census Bureau data covering the period from 2013 to 2017 .
People who like the National Front are more skeptical of globalization . Marine Le Pen launched her presidential campaign in February with a speech decrying globalization , and as the 2016 survey showed , the belief that involvement in the global economy has been a bad thing for France is more common among those with a favorable opinion of the National Front .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 9 - 13 among 1 , 504 adults , finds that just 23 % have a favorable opinion of Congress , while 73 % have an unfavorable view . Dissatisfaction with Congress also is seen in record anti-incumbent sentiment .
YouTube recommendations push users toward progressively longer videos . Around eight-in-ten adult YouTube users in the U.S. ( 81 % ) said in the 2018 survey that they at least occasionally watch the videos suggested by the platform 's recommendation algorithm . In a study of the algorithm itself , we found that YouTube recommends progressively longer videos – at least when it lacks information about the viewer needed for more personalized recommendations . After a chain of just four video recommendations , the algorithm was likely to suggest a video more than five minutes longer than the one it originally started on .
NATO recommends member states commit 2 % of their gross domestic product to defense spending , a guideline that has been in place since 2006 . But just 10 of the 29 member states for which data is available spend 2 % or more on defense . ( Data is not included for Iceland , which has no permanent military force . ) The U.S. is the leading defense spender among member states , committing an estimated 3.87 % of GDP to defense expenditures in 2020 . Nine other countries – including several in Central and Eastern Europe – also meet NATO 's 2 % threshold . Just one country – Luxembourg – spends less than 1 % of GDP on defense .
Refugees did not disperse equally across Europe , with some countries taking in more asylum seekers than the European average . In 2015 , the EU-28 , Norway and Switzerland as a whole had 250 asylum applicants per 100,000 residents . By comparison , Hungary had 1,770 applicants per 100,000 people ( the highest of any country ) and Sweden had 1,600 applicants per 100,000 people . Meanwhile , Germany had 540 applicants per 100,000 people , still well above the total European rate . By contrast , France had only 110 applicants per 100,000 people in its total population in 2015 and the UK had only 60 asylum seekers per 100,000 people .
Roughly a third of Americans ( 34 % ) now say substantially expanding the U.S.-Mexico border wall would result in a major reduction in illegal immigration into the U.S. , up from 29 % two years ago . Two-in-ten say expansion would lead to a minor reduction in illegal immigration , while a plurality ( 44 % ) continues to say expanding the wall would have little impact .
Immigration : A majority of Americans ( 58 % ) said they were not too or not at all confident in Trump 's ability to make wise decisions about immigration policy , according to the same January survey . Still , around half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) said immigration should be a top priority for Trump and Congress this year , though Republicans ( 68 % ) were much more likely than Democrats ( 40 % ) to say this . Similarly , in a survey conducted in November , most Republicans and Republican leaners ( 68 % ) said reducing illegal immigration into the U.S. should be a top foreign policy priority , while just two-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners said this . Republicans were also more likely to view reducing legal immigration into the U.S. as a priority ( 41 % vs. 14 % ) .
Some Americans are having a change of heart about mixing religion and politics . A new survey finds a narrow majority of the public saying that churches and other houses of worship should keep out of political matters and not express their views on day-to-day social and political matters . For a decade , majorities of Americans had voiced support for religious institutions speaking out on such issues .
An estimated 738,000 Hispanics of Ecuadorian origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Ecuadorians in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Ecuadorian origin ; this includes immigrants from Ecuador and those who trace their family ancestry to Ecuador . Ecuadorians are the 10th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Ecuadorian-origin population has increased 174 % , growing from 270,000 to 738,000 over the period . At the same time , the Ecuadorian foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 109 % , from 205,000 in 2000 to 427,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
Aside from the 2008 presidential campaign , the public focused its attention on disaster news – both at home and abroad – while the media devoted most of its coverage elsewhere . One-in-five named the earthquake in China as the story they followed more closely than any other last week , on par with the interest levels when the earthquake struck in mid-May . The national news media devoted 3 % of its coverage to the story . News about violent storms and tornadoes in the Midwest also captured the public 's attention last week with 18 % of Americans calling the storms their top story . Unsurprisingly , those in the middle of the country ( 41 % ) were much more likely than those living elsewhere to have followed the story very closely . Just 2 % of the national newshole was devoted to the storms .
But politics is not the only factor related to these perceptions . Americans who live close to a coastline are more likely than those who live farther away to say climate change is affecting their local community . Seven-in-ten Americans who live within 25 miles of a coastline say climate change is affecting their local community at least some , versus 57 % of those who live 300 miles or more from a coast . Large majorities of Democrats – both near and far from a coast – say climate change is affecting their local community at least some . But Democrats who live within 25 miles of a coastline are more likely than Democrats who live 300 miles or more inland to say climate change is impacting their community a great deal ( 39 % vs. 29 % ) .
The internet , which emerged this year as a leading source for campaign news , has now surpassed all other media except television as an outlet for national and international news . Currently , 40 % say they get most of their news about national and international issues from the internet , up from just 24 % in September 2007 . For the first time in a Pew survey , more people say they rely mostly on the internet for news than cite newspapers ( 35 % ) . Television continues to be cited most frequently as a main source for national and international news , at 70 % .
A national poll conducted by the Pew Research Center between December 7 , 2013 , and January 12 , 2014 shows that nine-in-ten Indians agree that the crime of rape is a `` very big problem '' in the country . Further , roughly eight-in-ten ( 82 % ) say the problem is growing . While four of the men convicted in the infamous Delhi case were given the death penalty , nearly three-in-four Indians ( 74 % ) say that the laws in the country are too lax when it comes to punishing cases of rape . About as many ( 78 % ) fault the country 's police for not being strict enough in investigating such cases .
Newspapers have more journalists in statehouses than other media do , accounting for 43 % of the full-time reporters . But those ranks have been thinning . An examination of comparable newspaper data from 2003 to 2014 finds that the number of full-time statehouse reporters dropped by 35 % between 2003 and 2014—a loss of 164 jobs . A number of observers say this has led to diminished coverage .
As a growing number of states ease penalties for drug possession , the public expresses increasingly positive views of the move away from mandatory sentences for non-violent drug crimes . By nearly two-to-one ( 63 % to 32 % ) , more say it is a good thing than a bad thing that some states have moved away from mandatory sentences for non-violent drug offenders . In 2001 , Americans were evenly divided over the move by some states to abandon mandatory drug terms .
People around the world are concerned about a variety of possible consequences of climate change , but drought tops the list . Survey respondents were presented with four potential effects of global warming , and were asked which one most concerns them : droughts or water shortages ; severe weather , such as floods or intense storms ; long periods of unusually hot weather ; or rising sea levels . Drought is the most common response ( or tied for the most common response ) in 31 countries , including the U.S. , where 50 % say this is the possible effect that concerns them most . Fears of drought are particularly prevalent in Latin America and Africa – in both regions , a median of 59 % say this is their top concern . Globally , a median of 44 % cite drought as their greatest worry with regard to climate change . Many are worried about other consequences as well . Across the nations polled , a median of 25 % say severe weather is their chief concern , and in Asia-Pacific the median is 34 % . Severe weather is the number one ( or tied for number one ) issue in eight nations . Meanwhile , Indonesians , Nigerians and Malaysians identify long periods of hot weather as a top concern . There is no country in which rising sea levels are the top choice , though roughly one-in-five or more respondents name this as their primary concern in France , the UK , Japan , Australia and South Korea .
Most Americans ( 72 % ) say it is likely that Russia or other foreign governments will attempt to influence the November 2020 election . But while majorities in both parties say this , this view is more widespread among Democrats than Republicans , with Democrats considerably more likely to consider efforts by foreign nations to influence the election to be a `` major problem . ''
These partisan differences , both in current size and in trajectory , are similar to those seen in attitudes about same-sex marriage . Democratic and independent support for gay marriage has steadily increased over the last decade , while there has not been a commensurate shift in GOP opinion . ( Click the graphic for interactive partisan trends on support for same-sex marriage . )
While the birth rate has declined among both U.S.-born and foreign-born women , immigrant women saw the biggest decline , from 90.7 births per 1,000 women in 2000 down to 77.4 in 2017 . Among U.S.-born women , the birth rate dropped from 60.9 to 56.2 . Still , immigrant fertility remains far higher than that of the U.S. born – as has long been the case .
In other news last week , the public continued to pay close attention to the Iraq war in spite of limited press coverage . Nearly three-in-ten Americans ( 28 % ) followed news about the war very closely and 17 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . One-in-five ( 21 % ) paid very close attention to the Iraq policy debate , 7 % listed this as their most closely followed story .
When respondents who favor gender equality are asked whether their country has made most of the changes needed to give women equal rights with men or if more changes are needed to achieve that goal , majorities in 18 of 22 countries say the latter . At least eight-in-ten equal rights supporters in Japan ( 89 % ) , Brazil ( 84 % ) , France ( 82 % ) and Spain ( 80 % ) say their countries need to continue making changes to ensure that women have the same rights as men . This view is shared nearly equally among both genders in Japan , Brazil and France ; in Spain , women are considerably more likely than men to say that more changes need to be made ( 86 % vs. 74 % ) .
The more negative expectations for 2015 are driven in large part by a shift in views among Democrats . With the Republican Party having gained full control of Congress , 60 % of Democrats expect 2015 to be better than 2014 — a drop of 21 points from a year ago when 81 % thought 2014 would be better than 2013 . Nonetheless , views among Democrats are brighter than those of Republicans : just 34 % of Republicans expect the coming year to be better than the last , little changed from prospective views of 2014 ( 33 % better ) . In December 2012 , following Barack Obama 's reelection , just 22 % of Republicans thought 2013 would be a better year than 2012 .
Protestants made up a majority of those voting Republican in 2018 , just as they did in 2016 . Overall , 57 % of GOP House voters were Protestant , compared with just a third ( 32 % ) of Democratic voters . Catholics made up a slightly higher share of Republican voters as well ( 22 % vs. 16 % of Democratic voters ) . Voters who were unaffiliated with any religious tradition ( atheists , agnostics and those who describe themselves as `` nothing in particular '' ) make up 42 % of Democratic voters but just 15 % of Republican voters .
Although Sweden is not a NATO member , joining the alliance has been a major topic of recent public debate in that country . About half of Swedes support NATO membership , and such sentiment is largely unchanged from last year : 47 % in 2017 , 45 % in 2016 . Opposition to joining has also stayed about the same , with 44 % opposing membership in 2016 compared to 39 % in 2017 . About one-in-seven Swedes ( 14 % ) voice no opinion on membership .
As Barack Obama takes office , the public 's focus is overwhelmingly on domestic policy concerns – particularly the economy . Strengthening the nation 's economy and improving the job situation stand at the top of the public 's list of domestic priorities for 2009 . Meanwhile , the priority placed on issues such as the environment , crime , illegal immigration and even reducing health care costs has fallen off from a year ago . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 7 - 11 among 1,503 adults on cell phones and landlines , finds that strengthening the economy and improving the job situation are higher priorities today than they have been at any point over the past decade , and the recent upward trend has been steep . The share of Americans saying that strengthening the nation 's economy should be a top priority has risen from 68 % two years ago to 75 % last January to 85 % today . Concern about jobs has risen even more sharply . The 82 % who rate improving the job situation as a top priority represents a 21-point jump from 61 % a year ago . Of the 20 issues people were asked to rate in both January 2008 and January 2009 , five have slipped significantly in importance as attention to the economy has surged . Protecting the environment fell the most precipitously – just 41 % rate this as a top priority today , down from 56 % a year ago . The percentage rating illegal immigration as a top priority has fallen from 51 % to 41 % over the past year , and reducing crime has fallen by a similar amount ( from 54 % to 46 % ) . And while reducing health care costs remains a top priority to 59 % of Americans , this is down 10-points from 69 % one year ago .
Developing countries provide the strongest support across the board for foreign investment , trade and the benefits to be derived from globalization . A median of 87 % of those surveyed in the developing world say trade is good for the economy , including 47 % who say it is very good . Fully 85 % see foreign companies building plants in their country as beneficial . In addition , 66 % say growing international business ties create jobs and 57 % say foreign companies buying domestic companies is good . And 55 % voice the view that trade increases wages . A median of 78 % in emerging markets see trade as beneficial , including 25 % who say it is very good . And 52 % say trade creates jobs , while a plurality believes it leads to higher wages ( 45 % ) . Such emerging market sentiment may reflect the experience in China and elsewhere , where growing international business ties have been associated with more employment opportunities and higher incomes . While 84 % in advanced economies say trade is good for their country , there is less enthusiasm . Only 44 % voice the view that trade boosts employment and just 25 % say it leads to higher wages . Such opinions are likely the casualty of the convergence of globalization with slow economic growth , high unemployment and stagnating incomes in these nations .
About three-quarters of self-reported voters ( 76 % ) say it was `` very easy '' for them to vote in the November elections . Another 16 % say voting was `` somewhat easy . '' Just 8 % say voting was very or somewhat difficult . Before the election , registered voters who said they planned to vote were somewhat less confident voting would be easy for them personally . In October , just 44 % said they expected it to be very easy and 40 % said they expected it would be somewhat easy for them to vote .
The new survey shows , however , that public confidence in the United Nations is a major victim of the conflict in Iraq . Positive ratings for the world body have tumbled in nearly every country for which benchmark measures are available . Majorities or pluralities in most countries believe that the war in Iraq showed the U.N. to be not so important any more . The idea that the U.N. is less relevant is much more prevalent now than it was just before the war , and is shared by people in countries that backed the war , the U.S. and Great Britain , as well as in nations that opposed it , notably France and Germany .
Overall , Clinton is viewed much more positively than Trump on several key character traits : Far more voters describe her as well-qualified than say that about Trump ( 62 % vs. 32 % ) , and the gap is nearly as wide in perceptions of whether each is `` reckless . '' Roughly seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) describe Trump as reckless , compared with 43 % who say this word describes Clinton . Majorities of voters say Clinton would do a better job on race relations ( 62 % vs. 30 % for Trump ) , making wise decisions on foreign policy ( 56 % vs. 37 % ) , dealing with health care ( 55 % vs. 40 % ) and selecting Supreme Court justices ( 55 % vs. 42 % ) .
Opinions about whether the U.S. achieved its goals in Iraq are more negative than positive . More Americans say the U.S. `` mostly failed '' in achieving its goals in Iraq ( 53 % ) than say the U.S. succeeded ( 39 % ) . These views are largely unchanged from early 2014 .
More than seven-in-ten ( 73 % ) Americans say the health care debate affects them personally , down slightly from the 78 % that said the same in mid-July . In the current survey , 26 % say it does not affect them personally , up slightly from 21 % in July . Nearly all Americans ( 93 % ) view the issue as important , about the same as the 95 % that said the issue was important in July . More than seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) say the issue is interesting , matching the proportion in the earlier survey , 26 % see it as boring . Still , interest and media coverage notwithstanding , 67 % say the health care debate remains hard to understand . That 's about the same as the 63 % that said the issue was hard to understand in mid-July . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say health care reform is easy to understand , little changed since July .
Debate over gun control in the U.S. was the public 's top story last week , with 42 % following news about the gun debate very closely . Interest was as high last week as it was in the Jan. 17 - 20 , 2013 survey , conducted shortly after Obama announced proposals for strengthening gun laws ( 43 % very closely ) . Equal percentages of Republicans and Democrats say they followed news about the gun control debate very closely ( 49 % each ) ; fewer independents followed the story ( 32 % very closely ) . Interest in the gun debate outpaced interest in economic news ( 33 % very closely ) as well as interest in news about immigration policy ( 23 % very closely ) , a hostage situation in Alabama ( 20 % very closely ) , and the Super Bowl ( 18 % ) . In the previous week 's survey ( conducted Jan. 24 - 27 ) , cold winter weather topped the public 's news agenda : 37 % followed news about winter weather very closely , compared with far fewer who followed Obama 's inauguration ( 24 % ) or discussions over the federal budget deficit and national debt ( 23 % ) . Democrats were much more likely to follow Obama 's inauguration very closely ( 41 % ) than were Republicans ( 12 % ) . Partisans were equally likely to follow news about Hillary Clinton testifying about the attack on the U.S. embassy in Benghazi , Libya .
The survey finds considerable evidence of the bitterness unleashed by the presidential campaign . Dating back to 1988 , no candidate , Democrat or Republican , has been viewed as more critical of their opponent than is Trump today ( the question was not asked in 1992 ) . Currently , 62 % of voters say Trump has been too personally critical of Clinton , which is about 10 percentage points higher than the previous peak ( 53 % said that about Bob Dole in 1996 , 52 % for John Kerry in 2004 ) . Just 36 % say he has not been too critical of Clinton . By comparison , 44 % say Clinton has been too personally critical of her opponent , which is higher than the share saying that about Barack Obama during either of his campaigns .
Relatively few adults in every country surveyed score above 5 on the scale . But there is considerable variation across countries . In Sweden , just 8 % of those surveyed scored higher than 5 , the lowest amount in any country , while in Italy , 38 % did , the highest share in any country . In most countries , the share scoring 5.01 or higher was between 15 % and 25 % . For example , in both Norway and France , 19 % of respondents scored 5.01 or higher .
Currently , 49 % of Americans say it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns , while 45 % say it is more important to control gun ownership . Opinion has been divided since early 2009 , shortly after Barack Obama 's election . From 1993 through 2008 , majorities had said it was more important to control gun ownership than to protect gun rights .
Americans ' views about tech companies have turned far less positive in recent years . Controversies related to digital privacy , made-up news , harassment and other issues may have taken their toll on public attitudes about tech companies . The share of Americans who say these companies are having a positive effect on the way things are going in the country has declined sharply since 2015 , according to a July 2019 survey . Four years ago , the majority of U.S. adults ( 71 % ) said these companies had a positive impact on the country , compared with 50 % today .
The presidential election is capturing the public 's attention much more now than it did at this point four and eight years ago . Nearly half of Americans ( 47 % ) say they are more interested in politics than they were four years ago , up from 38 % who expressed that view in June 2000 . Public attention to election news is greater now than at a comparable point in the last three campaigns . And this is translating into a more focused electorate ­ nearly six-in-ten voters ( 58 % ) say they are giving `` quite a lot '' of thought to the election , compared with 46 % who said that four years ago at this time .
Some portions of the social-media public are more likely to engage in this activity than others . Liberals outpace both moderates and conservatives , with about a quarter ( 26 % ) of liberal social media users having changed their pictures in response to an issue or event , compared with 14 % of conservatives and 16 % of moderates . This rises to three-in-ten liberals ages 18 - 49 . These differences hold even when accounting for age , sex , and race and ethnicity . Differences also emerge around gender , race and ethnicity , and age . Specifically , female social media users are more likely to change their profile pictures than men , as are black social media users compared with whites and Hispanics . About one-in-five of users ages 18 - 29 and 30 - 49 did so , compared with 13 % of 50- to 64-year-olds and just 5 % of those 65 and older .
The nation 's immigrants are more settled today than they were in 1990 , when the share of those who had arrived within the past 10 years peaked at 44 % . Now , the amount of time that immigrants have spent in the U.S. has grown . In 2018 , 73 % of immigrants had lived in the U.S. for over 10 years , up from 56 % in 1990 ( but similar to the share in 1970 . )
Moreover , the link between personal finances and national outlook turns out to be strongest among Republicans . Republicans who rate their personal financial situation favorably are overwhelming upbeat about the state of the economy . By and large , they feel well-off personally , and that good feeling carries over to their views of the larger world .
Millennials remain the most Democratic age cohort : 51 % of Millennials identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , compared with 35 % who identify as Republican or lean Republican . The balance of leaned party identification narrows among Generation X and the Baby Boomers . And among the Silent Generation , Republicans hold a four-point lead in leaned party affiliation ( 47 % -43 % ) . Back to top
A majority of Americans ( 76 % ) say they see scientific developments as more important since the coronavirus outbreak . Just 4 % say they see such developments as less important , and another 19 % say the outbreak has made no difference in the level of importance .
According to our estimate , there are about 3.45 million Muslims of all ages in the U.S. , or about 1.1 % of the U.S. population . This is based on an analysis of census statistics and data from a 2017 survey of U.S. Muslims , which was conducted in English as well as Arabic , Farsi and Urdu . Based on the same analysis , Pew Research Center also estimates that there are 2.15 million Muslim adults in the country , and that a majority of them ( 58 % ) are immigrants .
Young adults generally are more focused than their elders when it comes to online privacy . Younger adults are more likely to know that personal information about them is available online and to have experienced privacy problems . By the same token , our surveys have found that those ages 18 to 29 are more likely than older adults to say they have paid attention to privacy issues , tried to protect their privacy and reported some kind of harm because of privacy problems . They are more likely to have limited the amount of personal information available about them online , changed privacy settings , deleted unwanted comments on social media , removed their name from photos in which they were tagged , and taken steps to mask their identities while online . It is also true that younger adults are more likely to have shared personal information online .
In April 2012 the Pew Research Center found for the first time that more than half of older adults ( defined as those ages 65 or older ) were internet users . Today , 59 % of seniors report they go online—a six-percentage point increase in the course of a year—and 47 % say they have a high-speed broadband connection at home . In addition , 77 % of older adults have a cell phone , up from 69 % in April 2012 . But despite these gains , seniors continue to lag behind younger Americans when it comes to tech adoption . And many seniors remain largely unattached from online and mobile life—41 % do not use the internet at all , 53 % do not have broadband access at home , and 23 % do not use cell phones .
Support for the increased use of fracking has declined . Overall , 41 % favored the increased use of fracking to extract oil and natural gas from underground rock formations while 47 % are opposed , according to last November 's poll . In March 2013 , there was more support ( 48 % ) than opposition ( 38 % ) to increased use of the drilling technique . Republicans support increased fracking far more than Democrats , by a 62 % to 29 % margin . There was a particularly dramatic change of views in the Midwest where increased use of fracking is now opposed by a 47 % to 39 % margin compared with the majority who favored its use in 2013 .
An estimated 687,000 Hispanics of Ecuadorian origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Ecuadorians are the 10th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 1.3 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013 . Since 1990 , the Ecuadorian-origin population has more than tripled , growing from 186,000 to 687,000 over the period . At the same time , the foreign-born population of Ecuadorian origin living in the U.S. grew by 203 % , up from 137,000 in 1990 to 417,000 in 2013 . In comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 34.6 million , or 64.1 % , of the Hispanic population in 2013 .
People are more pessimistic about jobs and income , and with good reason . Fully 45 % of respondents said the job situation has only partially recovered , and 52 % said it 's hardly recovered at all . While the unemployment rate has declined steadily for nearly four years , that 's due in no small part to people simply leaving the labor force — taking early retirement , going back to graduate school , or simply giving up looking for work . The employment-population ratio , which compares people with jobs to the entire working-age population , is up only slightly since its early-2011 low . ( The chart shows the ratio for people ages 25 to 54 , to minimize the impact of students and retirees ) .
While the media 's top story last week was the Iraq policy debate , the public remained focused on the aftermath of the shootings at Virginia Tech University . Fully 43 % of Americans followed news about the shootings very closely , and 46 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . News coverage of the Virginia Tech shootings fell off dramatically from the previous week : 7 % of the news coverage across all media sectors was devoted to the story last week , compared to 51 % the week the shootings took place . The second most closely followed news story , far behind the shootings , was the situation in Iraq — 27 % of the public followed events in Iraq very closely and 15 % said this was the news story they followed more closely than any other last week . Over the past month , the public has consistently expressed greater interest in the war itself than in the policy debate
White adults ( 79 % ) are more likely to say they have responded to the 2020 census than adults who are Hispanic ( 74 % ) or Black ( 66 % ) . In part , this reflects current response patterns : Based on local-level response rates published by the Census Bureau , heavily Black or Hispanic neighborhoods have lower participation rates so far than heavily white neighborhoods , according to the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York . U.S. Black and Hispanic populations have been undercounted in past censuses , according to the Census Bureau 's own research , while the white population has been overcounted . Adults ages 18 to 29 also are less likely to say they have participated than adults in each older age group . A little over half of young adults ( 56 % ) say they or someone else in their household returned the census form , compared with 76 % of adults ages 30 to 49 and even higher shares in age groups older than that .
Russians are split on Eurasian Economic Union membership for Ukraine , and they want the Donbas region of that country to secede . Only 45 % of Russians say Ukraine should join the Eurasian Economic Union ( EEU ) , a supranational body that consists of Russia , Armenia , Belarus and Kazakhstan , with Kyrgyzstan as an acceding state . Four-in-ten Russians are opposed to Ukraine joining the EEU . However , few Russians want Ukraine to join NATO ( 3 % support ) or the European Union ( 14 % ) .
When it comes to news consumption , a growing share of Latinos prefers English .
By a 3-to-1 margin , Egyptians are more dissatisfied ( 72 % ) than satisfied ( 24 % ) with their country 's direction . Dissatisfaction is up significantly from last year 's already high 62 % , and in fact , is roughly the same today as it was before the revolution that removed Mubarak from office .
Overall , a majority of Americans ( 58 % ) say that police around the country are doing an excellent or good job of protecting people from crimes – a view held by 78 % of Republicans and Republican leaners but 43 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . Two-thirds of white adults ( 67 % ) say the police are doing a good or excellent job of protecting people , while just 28 % of Black adults say the same . Half of Hispanic adults say police do an excellent or good job of protecting people .
The FBI collects data on `` active shooter incidents , '' which it defines as `` as one or more individuals actively engaged in killing or attempting to kill people in a populated area . '' Using the FBI 's definition , 85 people – excluding the shooters – died in such incidents in 2018 . The FBI found an increase in active shooter incidents between 2000 and 2013 . The average number of incidents rose from 6.4 a year in the first seven years of the study to an average of 16.4 a year in the second seven-year period . In subsequent studies , the FBI recorded 20 active shooter incidents per year in 2014 and 2015 , followed by 20 incidents in 2016 , 30 in 2017 and 27 in 2018 .
Two key questions highlight the challenge library leaders face . First , what should libraries do with their books ? Some 30 % of those ages 16 and over think libraries should `` definitely '' move some print books and stacks out of public locations to free up more space for such things as tech centers , reading rooms , meeting rooms and cultural events ; 40 % say libraries should `` maybe '' do that ; and 25 % say libraries should `` definitely not '' do that .
While the public 's interest in hearing from the presidential campaigns has increased , voters have been paying far less attention to news about the presidential candidates than to news about the COVID-19 pandemic and the protests over George Floyd 's killing . In the early June survey , overwhelming majorities of voters said they were paying attention to news about the coronavirus outbreak and Floyd protests at least fairly closely ( 90 % and 86 % , respectively ) , including 45 % of voters who said they were following these stories very closely .
Through it all , the public 's perceptions of economic news have changed very little . Currently , 61 % say the news they are hearing about the economy is a mix of good and bad , 33 % say it is mostly bad and just 5 % say it is mostly good .
About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) of all LGBT adults who have told their mother said the experience was a difficult one , and 65 % of those who told their father said the same . Relatively few said it resulted in their relationships growing weaker .
In 1967 , the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in the Loving v. Virginia case that marriage across racial lines was legal throughout the country . Intermarriage has increased steadily since then : One-in-six U.S. newlyweds ( 17 % ) were married to a person of a different race or ethnicity in 2015 , a more than fivefold increase from 3 % in 1967 . Among all married people in 2015 ( not just those who recently wed ) , 10 % are now intermarried – 11 million in total .
Iran received some of the lowest marks among the countries asked about in this year 's survey , which also included the U.S. and China . A 14-country median of 71 % said they disliked Iran , making critical views of it more common than unfavorable opinions of the U.S. and about as common as negative assessments of China . In five of the 14 nations surveyed , Iran is the least popular country among those asked about , and in Germany it is tied with China for last place .
As campaign interest among young people has declined , fewer say they are going online for campaign news . Just 29 % of those younger than 30 regularly learn something about the campaign online , down from 42 % four years ago . Early in the 2008 campaign , people under age 30 were twice as likely as people 30 and older to get campaign information online . There is far less of an age gap today .
Our July blog post struck a chord with many Americans exhausted by the amount of election coverage . At the time , the November election was still about four months away , yet most Americans told us they were already worn out by election news . This feeling of fatigue was particularly true among those who were n't following news about the election very closely – 69 % of this group said they were worn out compared with about 41 % of those who were following the election very closely . When asked about various topics of campaign coverage , two areas stood out for being over-covered : About four-in-ten said there was too much coverage of candidates ' comments on the campaign trail and of their personal lives , higher than any other topics asked about . There was only one topic that most Americans said had received too little coverage – candidates ' stances on issues .
A growing share of blacks are completing high school and college , yet blacks lag behind whites in college completion . High school dropout rates reached an all-time low in 2014 for black students , and the high school completion gap between blacks and whites continues to narrow . In 2015 , 93 % of whites ages 25 and older had a high school diploma , compared with 88 % of blacks the same age – only a 6-percentage-point difference , roughly half of what it was in 2000 . The share of blacks ages 25 and older with at least a bachelor 's degree has also trended upward for several decades . In 2015 , nearly a quarter of blacks ages 25 and older ( 23 % ) had at least a bachelor 's degree , compared with 36 % of whites and 53 % of Asians .
Overall , somewhat more say their family 's finances have been helped ( 43 % ) than hurt ( 36 % ) by free trade agreements . Among those with family incomes of $ 100,000 or more , far more feel they have been helped ( 52 % ) than hurt ( 29 % ) financially . But among those in the lowest income group ( less than $ 30,000 ) , 38 % say their finances have benefited from free trade agreements , while 44 % say they have been hurt . Moreover , the share of Americans who say their finances have been helped by free trade agreements has risen since 2010 . At that time , negative impressions of the financial impact of trade deals outnumbered positive ones by 20 points ( 46 % to 26 % ) . Today , 43 % take a positive view of the financial impact of free trade agreements , up 17 points since 2010 , while 36 % take a negative view ( down 10 points ) .
Nearly half of refugees entering the U.S. this year are Muslim . The U.S. admitted the highest number of Muslim refugees in fiscal 2016 of any year since data on self-reported religious affiliations first became publicly available in 2002 . A slightly lower share of 2016 's refugees were Christian ( 44 % ) than Muslim ( 46 % ) , the first time that has happened since fiscal 2006 , when a large number of Somali refugees entered the U.S .
The Islamic militant group known as ISIS has risen higher atop the public 's list of global threats to the U.S . Overall , 83 % say ISIS is a major threat to the well-being of the United States , while 13 % say it is a minor threat and just 3 % say it is not a threat . Since August 2014 , the public has become 16 points more likely to view ISIS as a major threat to the U.S .
The new survey also finds that social media users generally do not find common ground as a result of online discussions about politics . Roughly seven-in-ten users ( 72 % ) say that discussing politics on social media with people they disagree with usually leads them to find out they have `` less in common politically '' than they expected , while 22 % report finding out they have `` more in common politically '' than previously thought .
Just 39 % approve of the job Trump has done in explaining his plans and policies , while 41 % approve of his high-level appointments , according to a Pew Research Center national survey , conducted Jan. 4 - 9 among 1,502 adults . These opinions have changed little since December . In January 2009 , just before Barack Obama 's inauguration , 70 % approved of the job he had done explaining his plans and policies for the future and 66 % said they approved of his Cabinet selections .
An important milestone for many gay men and lesbians is telling their parents about their sexual orientation , our 2013 survey showed . Overall , gay adults are more likely to have shared this information with their mothers ( 70 % in the case of gay men , 67 % in the case of lesbians ) than with their fathers ( 53 % gay men , 45 % lesbians ) . The majority of gay adults who did end up telling their parents said it was hard to do . Among those who told their mothers , 64 % of gay men and 65 % of lesbians said it was difficult ; and among those who told their fathers , 74 % of gay men and 63 % of lesbians said it was difficult .
Other than education , getting and keeping jobs has been key to improved Hispanic economic prospects . From its high in 1992 , the overall unemployment rate dropped by half to 5.7 in 2000 . However , in December 2001 , Latino unemployment stood at 7.8 percent , compared to 4.4 percent for whites . Relative to native-born Latinos , immigrants have had lower rates of unemployment during this period of growth . How this story plays out in the current recession remains to be seen . Hispanics are heavily reliant on employment with few alternative sources of income : 68 percent of Hispanic adults are in the labor force . Among the major Hispanic populations , Cubans had the highest rate of unemployment at 10 percent , with a 57 percent labor force participation rate . Mexican Americans had an unemployment rate of 8.1 percent and nearly 70 percent of them were in the labor force . Latinos of Central and South American origin had an unemployment rate of 6.7 percent and more than 72 percent of these Latinos were in the labor force .
The public generally expresses more worry than enthusiasm about emerging automation technologies – especially when it comes to jobs . U.S. adults are roughly twice as likely to express worry ( 72 % ) as enthusiasm ( 33 % ) about a future in which robots and computers are capable of doing many jobs that are currently done by humans . They are also around three times as likely to express worry ( 67 % ) as enthusiasm ( 22 % ) about algorithms that make hiring decisions without any human involvement . By comparison , Americans tend to hold more balanced views toward driverless vehicles and robot caregivers .
The gap between Trump and Biden supporters is about as wide on this question : By more than two-to-one ( 68 % to 30 % ) , Biden supporters credit U.S. success to its ability to change . By a fairly similar margin ( 66 % to 33 % ) , Trump voters hold the opposing view , that the U.S. owes its success more to reliance on long-standing principles .
Looking ahead , 27 % say they expect economic conditions to be better in a year compared with 20 % who think they will be worse ; 52 % say they will be about the same as they are now . The share saying they expect conditions to improve has declined slightly from January ( from 31 % to 27 % ) .
This message is likely to resonate with many Americans . Seven-in-ten U.S. adults say the economic system in their country unfairly favors powerful interests , compared with less than a third who say the system is generally fair to most Americans . Wide majorities of Americans also say politicians , large corporations and people who are wealthy have too much power and influence in today 's economy . Across income groups , Americans tend to agree that the economic system unfairly favors powerful interests . Two-thirds of upper-income adults ( 66 % ) say this , as do 69 % of middle- and 73 % of lower-income adults . No more than about a third in each income group say the economic system is generally fair to most Americans . There is a partisan gap on this question , however . Republicans and independents who lean to the Republican Party are evenly divided , with half saying the economic system is generally fair and half saying it favors powerful interests . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , the vast majority ( 86 % ) say the system unfairly favors powerful interests , while only 12 % say the system is fair .
On five key domestic issues , around two-thirds or more approve of the job Duterte is doing . This includes 80 % who approve of Duterte 's handling of the economy and 78 % who approve of his handling of illegal-drug issues . Large majorities also support his stance on crime , corruption and terrorism . Duterte 's handling of these issues garners widespread approval within the Philippines , regardless of demographic group .
About half of Americans ( 51 % ) now rate the national economy as excellent or good , among the most positive measures in nearly two decades . As has been the case since Donald Trump took office , Republicans are far more positive than Democrats about economic conditions : 73 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say economic conditions are excellent or good while just 35 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners agree . Partisans also are divided in their expectations for the economy . Republicans ( 57 % ) are much more likely than Democrats ( 12 % ) to say they expect the national economy to get better in the next year . Partisan differences in opinions about the economy – current and future – are about as wide as they were in March .
In New England , 62 % favor same-sex marriage , while 29 % oppose it . In the mid-Atlantic , 57 % favor and 34 % oppose allowing gay marriage . Opinions among those on the Pacific Coast are similar ( 54 % favor , 37 % oppose ) .
Opinion about expanding the use of nuclear power has fluctuated in recent years . However , the current measure matches a previous low in support for increased nuclear power recorded in September 2005 ( 39 % favor , 53 % oppose ) .
At the same time , the public has shifted the emphasis it assigns to two major policy issues : dealing with the nation 's energy problem and reducing the budget deficit . About half ( 49 % ) say that dealing with the nation 's energy problem should be a top priority , down from 60 % a year ago . At the same time , there has been a modest rise in the percentage saying that reducing the budget deficit should be a top priority , from 53 % to 60 % . More than six-in-ten Americans say securing the Social Security system ( 66 % ) and securing the Medicare system ( 63 % ) should be top priorities for Obama and Congress . About as many ( 65 % ) say that improving the educational system should be a top policy priority . For all three items , public evaluations are not significantly different than they were one year ago .
Overall , public opinion of Pope Francis is now roughly at the same level as when he assumed the papacy in 2013 , but still below higher points in 2015 and 2017 , when 70 % of U.S. adults said they had a `` very '' or `` mostly '' favorable view of the pontiff . U.S. Catholics are more likely than the general public to have a positive assessment of Francis . About three-quarters of Catholics ( 77 % ) now view the pope favorably , which is 10 percentage points lower than the share who did so in January 2017 ( 87 % ) but not statistically different from the ratings recorded in January or September 2018 . ( Even though the 2018 and 2020 surveys produced different estimates of the share of Catholics who view Pope Francis favorably , the differences between the current survey and each of the surveys conducted in 2018 do not pass a test of statistical significance . )
Those who identify themselves as `` born-again or evangelical '' Christians constitute a sizable share of the electorate – 36 % of registered voters , compared with 37 % who are non-evangelical Christians and 27 % who identify with non-Christian faiths or with no religion at all . In addition , evangelicals are much more numerous within the Republican Party than among Democrats . Still , nearly three-in-ten Democrats consider themselves born-again or evangelical Christians .
Some owners try to be polite when addressing their smart speakers . More than half ( 54 % ) of smart speaker owners report that they ever say `` please '' when speaking to their device , including about one-in-five ( 19 % ) who say they do this frequently . And while the shares of Americans who say this tend to be similar across many groups , there are some notable differences by gender . Women are more likely than men to say they at least occasionally say `` please '' to their smart speaker ( 62 % vs. 45 % ) .
Overall , about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed news about the floods in Pakistan very closely ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Partisans showed about the same level of interest . The floods made up 4 % of coverage this week .
People in most surveyed countries were more likely to approve of their own nation 's handling of the pandemic than the WHO 's response . But that was n't the case everywhere . In Sweden , Belgium , France and the U.S. , similar shares said their country and the WHO had done a good job . Elsewhere , more said the WHO had handled the outbreak well than said the same of their own country . ( The survey was conducted in summer , before a second surge in coronavirus cases began across Europe . ) In the UK , fewer than half ( 46 % ) said their own country had done a good job dealing with the virus , but 64 % said the same about the WHO . Similarly , in Spain , 54 % said their country had dealt with the virus well , but two-thirds said the same of the WHO .
When it comes to what rules should apply to drone use , roughly half the public ( 54 % ) thinks drones should not be allowed to fly near people 's homes . Just 11 % think this should be allowed , while 34 % think it is OK in certain circumstances but not others . Around half of the public ( 53 % ) says private citizens should not be allowed to pilot drones near accidents or crime scenes , while a plurality ( 45 % ) says this practice should not be allowed at public events like concerts or rallies . By comparison , Americans are more broadly accepting of drone use by private citizens in locations such as beaches or public parks .
Republican intra-party divisions are particularly sharp over funding for education , Social Security and environmental protection . A third ( 33 % ) of Republicans and GOP leaners who agree with the Tea Party favor decreasing federal education spending , compared with just 4 % of non-Tea Party Republicans . Instead , 64 % of non-Tea Party Republicans want increased education spending , as do 78 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
Western Europeans are divided over the impact of immigration on their nation 's culture , security and economy , particularly along ideological lines . For example , a third or more in each country surveyed say immigrants increase the risk of terrorism in their nation , with Germans and Italians the most likely to express this view . Within each country , left-right ideology tends to influence these opinions more than populist views do . People on the right are at least 20 percentage points more likely than those on the left to say immigrants increase the risk of terrorism in their country . Still , in most countries , populist views also matter – the populist groups studied tend to be more negative toward immigrants on the security issue than their mainstream counterparts are .
Overall , 33 % say there are plenty of jobs available where they live , compared with 58 % who say that jobs are difficult to find . The percentage saying that jobs are readily available is up six points since April and has steadily increased since reaching 10 % in the spring of 2010 . Half the sample was asked about the availability of jobs generally , and the other half was about the availability of `` good jobs . '' About a quarter ( 26 % ) say there are plenty of good jobs available where they live ; 71 % say good jobs are hard to find in their area .
The only country in the region where a clear majority says the U.S. takes their interests into account a great deal or fair amount is the Philippines ( 85 % ) . About half ( 52 % ) of Indonesians share that view . A big majority in Australia ( 71 % ) , which was one of the countries that was part of the administration 's `` pivot '' strategy , says the U.S. does not take its interests into account much or at all while more than half of publics in South Korea ( 62 % ) , Japan ( 59 % ) and Pakistan ( 53 % ) share that view . Opinion is divided in Malaysia where the public says the U.S. does not consider its interests much or at all by a 44 % to 38 % margin . The U.S. does better in China itself where 49 % says the U.S. considers their country 's interest a great deal or fair amount while 38 % hold that opposite view .
About one-in-six ( 16 % ) say they very closely followed news about these early stages in the 2012 presidential election ; 2 % say this was the news they followed most closely . In a week that included the first debate among potential Republican candidates , news about the election made up 3 % of coverage . Another 14 % say they very closely followed news about ongoing violence in Syria ; 2 % say this was their top story of the week . News about developments in Syria accounted for less than 1 % of coverage .
2 ) App response rates were lower than Web rates overall and for each of the 14 surveys we conducted . When conducting a new poll , survey researchers often go to a lot of trouble to find out how many of the people they targeted to take the survey actually end up completing the questionnaire , a concept referred to as the response rate . In this case , we found that those who were asked to take the survey on a Web browser were more likely to complete at least one survey than those using apps to take the survey , resulting in overall response rates of 84 % and 58 % , respectively . Part of this may be due to the fact that many panelists assigned to use the app had trouble using it because they did n't know what an app was , how to download it or how to use it even though they own a smartphone . In the future , we will take this into consideration because if fewer people use the survey app , this has implications for both the precision of the data collected and for cost . 3 ) App and Web respondents look similar demographically , and their answers basically did not differ . App respondents were somewhat younger , more likely to be from the Midwest and less likely to be registered to vote than Web respondents . Overall , app respondents looked slightly more like all smartphone users than did the Web respondents . In the final reckoning , though , both the app and Web respondents look similar enough in terms of demographics that either could be used to represent all smartphone users .
Globally , a median of just 34 % express a favorable view of Russia , while about a quarter ( 26 % ) have confidence in Putin to do the right thing in world affairs . In only four countries – the Philippines , Tunisia , South Korea and Greece – do at least half have a positive view of Russia . By contrast , majorities in North America and much of Europe see Russia in a negative light . Attitudes toward Putin follow a similar pattern , with the Philippines and Tunisia the only countries where more than half express confidence in the Russian leader . These views notwithstanding , many say Russia 's international stature is growing . A median of roughly four-in-ten ( 42 % ) believe Russia is playing a more important role in the world today compared with 10 years ago . A smaller share sees Russia holding its ground ( 28 % ) , while just 19 % say Moscow 's influence is waning . Russia 's increased influence in world affairs is felt more in Europe , North America and the Middle East than in the Asia-Pacific , Latin America or sub-Saharan Africa . Among the countries surveyed , Greeks and Israelis are especially likely to say that Russia 's global stature has grown .
In January 2005 , Bush earned a lofty 89 % approval from members of his own party , but that has declined to 73 % in the current survey . Among independents , the number approving of Bush 's job performance has fallen from 47 % in January 2005 to 26 % today ; and Bush 's support among Democrats , already quite low , has fallen by about half since the start of his second term ( from 17 % to 9 % ) .
In January 2009 , 65 % could recall the name of a person Obama had selected for a role in his administration ( a level of awareness that was driven in large party by familiarity with his pick for Secretary of State , Hillary Clinton ) . In January 2001 , fewer than half ( 43 % ) could name an appointee of George W. Bush ; and in January 1993 , just 21 % could identify a person Bill Clinton had nominated for his cabinet or other high-level post .
The survey also asks people about whether voting this year will be easy or difficult . A large majority ( 84 % ) of those who plan to vote in the midterms say voting will be easy , though fewer than half ( 44 % ) say they expect it will be very easy . About one-in-seven people ( 15 % ) who plan to vote say it will be difficult .
Russia , Iran , China and North Korea . Partisan opinions about limiting the power and influence of Iran and Russia are nearly mirror images : 52 % of Democrats say reducing Russia 's power and influence should be a top priority , compared with 32 % of Republicans . By contrast , 52 % of Republicans rate limiting Iran 's power as a top goal , compared with 29 % of Democrats . Reducing China 's power and influence is not a leading goal for either party , but more Republicans ( 39 % ) than Democrats ( 26 % ) rate this as a top priority . There is greater partisan agreement on North Korea : 43 % of Republicans and 35 % of Democrats say limiting North Korea 's power and influence is a top priority .
Overall , 51 % approve of the job Obama is doing as president , while 43 % disapprove . Obama 's job ratings have ticked up since March ( 47 % approve , 46 % disapprove ) , but remain less positive than they were in December , immediately following his re-election ( 55 % approve , 39 % disapprove ) .
Much of this survey focuses on possible future impacts of automation , but a minority of Americans are already being impacted by these technologies in their own jobs and careers . Specifically , 2 % of Americans report that they have ever personally lost a job because their employers replaced their positions with a machine or computer program . Another 5 % report that they have ever had their pay or hours reduced for the same reason . Taken together , that works out to 6 % of U.S. adults who report having been impacted by workforce automation in one ( or both ) of these ways . The youngest adults – those ages 18 to 24 – are among the groups most likely to have been personally impacted by workforce automation . This experience is also more common than average among Latinos , part-time workers and those with relatively low household incomes .
In the four predominantly Muslim countries surveyed , opposition to the war remains nearly universal . Moreover , while large majorities in Western European countries opposed to the war say Saddam Hussein 's ouster will improve the lot of the Iraqi people , those in Muslim countries are less confident . In Jordan , no less than 70 % of survey respondents think the Iraqis will be worse off with Hussein gone .
Overall , 54 % approve of Democratic congressional leaders ' policies and plans for the future , while 43 % disapprove . Opinions about GOP leaders ' policies were more divided after the 2010 election , when Republicans won the House , and after the 2014 midterm , when Republicans won full control of Congress .
Roughly one-in-four teens have fought with a friend because of something that first happened online or because of a text message . While a majority of teens have not fought with a friend over something that initially occurred online , 26 % of teens have experienced this type of digitally facilitated conflict . Teen girls ( 32 % ) are more likely than their male counterparts ( 20 % ) to say they have had this type of conflict , while whites are more likely than blacks to have fought with a friend because of something that happened online .
Republicans express intensely negative views of `` socialism '' and highly positive views of `` capitalism . '' Overall , a much larger share of Americans have a positive impression of capitalism ( 65 % ) than socialism ( 42 % ) , according to a new survey by Pew Research Center . There are large partisan differences in views of capitalism : Nearly eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 78 % ) express somewhat or very positive reactions to the term , while just over half of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 55 % ) say they have a positive impression .
Two-thirds of registered voters say they are either somewhat ( 52 % ) or very ( 14 % ) satisfied with their choice of candidates for Congress in their district this November ; 31 % say they are not too ( 24 % ) or not at all ( 7 % ) satisfied with their choices . Younger voters – who express some of the lowest levels of candidate knowledge – also are among those least satisfied with their choices this fall . Overall , 54 % of voters ages 18 to 29 say they are at least somewhat satisfied with their choices , compared with 42 % who say they are not too or not at all satisfied . Among all older age groups , larger majorities express satisfaction with the candidates , including 74 % of voters ages 65 and older .
Looking at voters ' priorities for immigration policy , there is some common ground among partisans . When asked whether the policy priority should be `` creating a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if they meet certain requirements , '' or `` better border security and stronger enforcement of our immigration laws '' – or whether both should be given equal priority – nearly half of Republican voters ( 48 % ) and about as many Democratic voters ( 45 % ) say both should be given equal priority .
The public is divided over last week 's Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage : 45 % approve of the court 's decisions , while 40 % disapprove . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center conducted June 27 - 30 among 1,003 adults , finds that most Americans are aware of the ruling and its implications . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) know that the court ruled in favor of same-sex marriage supporters , while about the same share ( 67 % ) knows that it is up to individual states to determine whether gay couples can get married .
Another survey last year found that just 9 % of social media users were `` very confident '' that social media companies would protect their data . About half of users were not at all or not too confident their data were in safe hands .
However , those who plan to vote Republican this fall have given more thought than Democratic voters to the midterm elections . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) Republican voters have given `` quite a lot '' of thought to the elections , compared with 44 % of Democratic voters .
Opinions of Iranian President Hassan Rouhani are generally similar to opinions of Assad . Fewer than 10 % in both Israel and Jordan hold a positive view of the Iranian president .
Most Americans ( 57 % ) support the recent decision by South Carolina 's government to remove the flag from the statehouse grounds ; 34 % see this as the wrong decision . Though majorities of whites ( 56 % ) , blacks ( 76 % ) and Hispanics ( 52 % ) say the flag 's removal was the right decision , there are more substantial partisan divides : Fully 74 % of Democrats say this was the right decision , while Republicans are more divided ( 43 % right decision , 49 % wrong decision ) .
When asked whether men or women are better at dealing with a variety of policy areas , ranging from social issues like education and health care to gun policy or national security , a majority of Americans said men and women were equally capable . To the extent that the public saw a difference , more gave women the edge when it comes to dealing with social issues , while men were seen as better at dealing with national security and defense .
More Mexicans view the United States unfavorably than at any time in the past decade and a half . Nearly two-thirds of Mexicans ( 65 % ) express a negative opinion of the U.S. , more than double the share two years ago ( 29 % ) . Mexicans ' opinions about the economic relationship with their country 's northern neighbor are also deteriorating , though less dramatically : 55 % now say economic ties between Mexico and the U.S. are good for their country , down from 70 % in 2013 .
Republican-leaning independents favor expanding the border wall , though by a smaller margin than Republicans identifiers . GOP leaners favor substantially expanding the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border by roughly three-to-one ( 75 % to 23 % ) . Among those who affiliate with the Republican Party , the margin is nearly eight-to-one ( 87 % to 11 % ) . As with the border wall , Democratic-leaning independents are more likely to view increased tariffs negatively ( 75 % say they will be bad for the U.S. ) than Republican-leaning independents are to view them positively ( 66 % say they will be good ) . On taxes , two-thirds of GOP leaners approve of the tax law , while an identical share of Democratic leaners disapprove .
Worldwide , an estimated $ 582 billion was sent by migrants to relatives in their home countries in 2015 , a 2 % decline from 2014 , when the amount was $ 592 billion , according to economists at the World Bank . This is the first drop in global remittances since 2009 , when they fell by $ 28 billion amid the global financial crisis . Despite this recent decline , remittances sent by migrants are still about double what they were a decade ago , before the sharp decline in the global economy during the late 2000s . And , with the exception of 2009 , migrant remittances worldwide have steadily climbed since the World Bank began releasing estimates in 1970 .
Based on the conventional statistics used to gauge educational attainment , the nation has made some progress toward this 2020 goal during the Obama years . In March 2009 , 41 % of 25- to 34-year-olds had completed at least an associate degree . By March 2016 , 48 % of young adults had done so . Women continue to outpace men in terms of educational attainment , though both groups are making gains at a fairly similar rate . A larger share of female 25- to 34-year-olds ( 52 % ) had finished college in 2016 than their male counterparts ( 43 % ) .
Yet even among non-Muslims with positive feelings about Muslims , large shares in most countries still favor banning face coverings . Among those who say they would be willing to accept a Muslim in their family , a median of 55 % support banning facial coverings , and this includes majorities in Germany , the United Kingdom , Austria , Switzerland and the Netherlands . This is not the case in every country , however . For example , about six-in-ten Portuguese adults with these positive feelings about Muslims favor no restrictions on religious clothing .
Meanwhile , Latin America overall saw its income gap narrow over time . From 2000 to 2013 , the incomes of poorer households grew at a higher rate than incomes of richer households , according to the World Bank .
A 63 % majority of Americans say stricter environmental regulations are worth the cost . When asked to choose , most Americans say stricter environmental regulations are worthwhile , while 30 % think such laws and regulations cost too many jobs and hurt the economy . Public views on this issue have fluctuated from year to year , although the balance of opinion is nearly the same as it was when first asked 25 years ago . There are wide partisan divides on this question . As of early 2019 , 81 % of Democrats ( and independents who lean to the Democratic Party ) had a positive view of stricter environmental regulations , compared with 45 % of Republicans and GOP-leaning independents . Most conservative Republicans ( 60 % ) say environmental regulations cost too many jobs and hurt the economy . GOP moderates and liberals take the opposite view : 60 % in this group say such regulations are worth the cost .
In other news last week , about a third of the public ( 34 % ) followed reports about floods in the Midwest very closely ; 22 % listed this as their most closely followed story for the week . The presidential campaign drew comparable interest . News about the flooding accounted for 10 % of all news last week and was the leading story on network news , comprising 16 % of the network TV newshole . Not surprisingly , residents of the Midwest followed this story more closely than people in other parts of the country . A majority ( 53 % ) of those living in the Midwest followed news about the floods very closely .
Diversity among congressional members has been growing for decades . But the nation 's population has diversified more quickly . When the 107th Congress took office in 2001 , minorities accounted for 12 % of Congress , compared with about 31 % of the nation 's population . By comparison , in 1981 , 6 % of Congress was minority ( black , Hispanic , Asian/Pacific Islander or Native American ) , while in the national population about 20 % were non-white . The increasing number of minorities in Congress is due almost entirely to membership changes in the House , where today 85 of 435 ( 20 % ) members are non-white , according to CQ Roll Call . In 2001 , there were 60 minorities in the House . By comparison , in the Senate , just six of 100 senators now belong to a racial or ethnic minority group , up from three senators in 2001 .
Big cities in the U.S. tend toward the liberal side of the political spectrum , even when they 're within conservative states ( residents of Austin sometimes joke that their city is `` an island surrounded by Texas '' ) . But which cities are more liberal — or conservative — than their reputations ? Overall , the liberal tilt of big cities is unmistakable . Even cities with conservative reputations ( such as Dallas , Santa Ana , Calif. and Cincinnati ) show up as left-of-center , if only slightly . This is perhaps not surprising : As the Pew Research Center recently found , 46 % of consistent liberals said they 'd prefer to live in a city , versus just 4 % of consistent conservatives . Liberals also are about twice as likely as conservatives to live in urban areas , while conservatives are more concentrated in rural areas .
Supporters of both parties are equally likely to follow political figures on social media , with 18 % of Republicans and 15 % of Democrats doing so . And as was the case with mobile political activity , voters in their 30s and 40s have experienced a particularly substantial increase in this behavior . Some 21 % of voters ages 30 - 49 follow political figures on social media , a more than three-fold increase from the previous midterm cycle .
Majorities of Democrats say the gender , race or sexuality of the Democratic nominee in 2020 would n't make a difference in their enthusiasm . Nearly two-thirds of Democrats ( 64 % ) say it would not make a difference in their enthusiasm if the party 's nominee is a woman , while nearly a third ( 31 % ) say they would feel more enthusiastic . Among Democratic women younger than 50 , 45 % say they would be more enthused over a woman nominee , compared with 28 % of Democratic men under 50 . Relatively small shares of Democrats overall say their enthusiasm would be affected if the party 's nominee is black or Hispanic . However , about a third of black Democrats ( 35 % ) say they would be more enthusiastic if the nominee is black and 44 % of Hispanic Democrats say the same about a Hispanic nominee .
In the current survey , Republicans express confidence in Trump 's decision-making . Overall , 65 % say they think Trump 's approach to making important decisions will be about right ; roughly a quarter ( 28 % ) say he 'll be too impulsive . Conservative Republicans ( 74 % ) are more likely than moderate and liberal Republicans ( 51 % ) to say they think Trump 's decision-making will be about right . By contrast , Democrats overwhelmingly say that Trump will be too impulsive in making important decisions : 84 % say this , compared with just 9 % who think his approach will be about right . A wide majority of liberal Democrats ( 94 % ) say Trump will be too impulsive ; a somewhat smaller majority of conservative and moderate Democrats say the same ( 77 % ) .
About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed news about a deadly spill of toxic sludge in Hungary very closely ; 3 % say they followed this news most closely . The spill accounted for 2 % of the newshole examined by PEJ .
One area of agreement between Clinton and Trump supporters is expanding both solar and wind energy sources . About nine-in-ten Clinton supporters ( 91 % ) and 84 % of Trump supporters say they favor more solar panel farms . Roughly similar shares of Clinton supporters ( 88 % ) and Trump supporters ( 77 % ) support more wind turbine farms .
The intense levels of information coming from Iraq have had immediate effects on the public 's evaluation of the war 's progress , as well as people 's emotional states . The percentage saying the military effort in Iraq was progressing `` very well '' dropped from 65 % to 39 % within the first week of the engagement , as news about Iraqi resistance to the ground war dominated the news , and has risen again to 55 % in the last week as reports about the successful campaign against Bagdad became the central story .
The belief that traditional ways are being lost is less prevalent among rural residents , older people , and lower socioeconomic groups . Instead , those who tend to be on the cutting edge of China 's rapidly modernizing society – the college educated ( 68 % ) , 18 - 29 year-olds ( 67 % ) , high income earners ( 67 % ) , and city dwellers ( 65 % ) – are the most likely to see traditional ways disappearing .
Whether or not parents frequently discuss acceptable conduct with their teen varies by a number of demographic characteristics . For example , mothers are more likely than fathers to report talking frequently with their teen about appropriate online and offline behavior . There are also differences based on household income . Across the five types of conversations measured , parents who are less affluent are more likely than those from higher-income households to have these regular conversations . And Hispanic parents ( 51 % ) are more likely than white ( 32 % ) or black ( 32 % ) parents to frequently speak with their teen about their online behavior towards others .
Opinions about homosexuality and the possible impact same-sex marriage also have shifted substantially over the past decade . In 2003 , as the debate over same-sex marriage intensified and Massachusetts became the first state to allow same-sex marriage , a 56 % majority of Americans felt that allowing gays and lesbians to marry would undermine the traditional American family , while 39 % disagreed . Today , 46 % say same-sex marriage would undermine the traditional family while slightly more ( 51 % ) disagree .
For the first time in nearly two decades , the share of U.S. births to unmarried mothers ticked downward in 2014 , according to new preliminary data from the National Center for Health Statistics . The report also showed that the total number of births and the U.S. birth rate rose in 2014 for the first time in seven years , reversing a decline linked to the Great Recession .
As people have gained more access to computers and cell phones , internet and email usage have also increased . A median of 45 % across the 18 countries for which 2007 trends are available now say they use the internet at least occasionally ; three years ago , when the Pew Global Attitudes Project first asked this question , a median of 35 % said that was the case . The median percentage that sends or receives email at least occasionally has also risen , although not as steeply , from 29 % in 2007 to 34 % in 2010 .
As their ranks have swelled in the past several decades , immigrants have come to play an outsize role in U.S. fertility , accounting for almost one-fourth ( 23 % ) of babies born in the United States ( but just 14 % of the overall population ) . A new Pew Research Center report examines long-term trends in U.S. births among both U.S.-born and foreign-born women , and the growing gap in the share of births outside of marriage between the two groups . The report also looks at how the financial and demographic profiles of new mothers vary depending not only upon their nativity , but upon their region and country of birth , as well . The increase in U.S. births since 1970 has been driven entirely by births to immigrant mothers . In 1970 the annual number of U.S. births stood at 3.74 million . By 2014 , the number had risen 7 % to 4.00 million . During that same time , the annual number of births to immigrant women tripled , from 274,000 to 901,000 . Meanwhile , births to U.S.-born women declined from 3.46 million to 3.10 million . In other words , were it not for the increase in births to immigrant women , the annual number of U.S. births would have declined since 1970 .
The share of Catholics in Latin America and among U.S. Hispanics is declining , according to two major Pew Research surveys , including a new poll on religion in 18 Latin American countries and Puerto Rico . But the two surveys also show that while Latin Americans leaving the Catholic Church largely have migrated to evangelical or Protestant churches , many of their Hispanic counterparts in the U.S. are abandoning religion altogether .
Greece , for example , has been in the news a great deal over the past decade , from its debt crisis following the Great Recession to its role as a key entry point for refugees entering Europe . So how do Greeks feel about the way things are going in their country ? As of 2019 , just 16 % say they are satisfied with the direction of their nation , while 82 % say they are dissatisfied . ( This is actually an improvement from 2016 , when only 5 % of Greeks expressed satisfaction with the way things were going in their country and 95 % said they were dissatisfied . ) Greeks ' attitudes toward the direction of the country track closely with their feelings about the economy : As of 2019 , only 15 % of Greeks say their nation 's economic situation is good , while 85 % say it is bad . ( This is again an improvement from 2016 . )
The Hispanic population is expected to reach about 106 million in 2050 , about double what it is today , according to new U.S. Census Bureau population projections . But the new Hispanic population projection for 2050 is lower — by nearly 30 million — than earlier population projections published by the bureau . These demographic changes have implications for population projections . For example , in 2008 , the bureau projected the Hispanic population in 2050 would be 133 million , about 35 million higher than the 2050 projection published by the bureau in 2000 . But 2008 turned out to be a high-water mark for the 2050 Hispanic population projection . By 2012 , the bureau 's projection had dropped to 112 million .
At the time the survey was taken in late March and early April , only minorities of the public in Spain ( 45 % for Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy ) , Greece ( 32 % for Prime Minister Lucas Papademos ) , Poland ( 25 % for Prime Minister Donald Tusk ) and the Czech Republic ( 25 % for Prime Minister Petr Necas ) thought their country 's leader was doing a good job handling the European economic crisis . About half of the British ( 51 % ) gave Prime Minister David Cameron good marks on this issue , while 48 % of Italians said the same about Prime Minister Mario Monti . But weeks before he lost his bid for reelection , French President Nicolas Sarkozy still enjoyed the confidence of 56 % of the French public for his management of the crisis .
Due mainly to a slump in the construction industry , the unemployment rate for Hispanics in the U.S. rose to 6.5 % in the first quarter of 2008 , well above the 4.7 % rate for all non-Hispanics . As recently as the end of 2006 , the gap between those two rates had shrunk to an historic low of 0.5 percentage points—4.9 % for Latinos compared with 4.4 % for non-Latinos , on a seasonally adjusted basis .
While the public expresses more worry than enthusiasm about human enhancements , most expect many enhancements will happen within the next 50 years . Fully 81 % of U.S. adults expect artificially made organs to be routinely available for transplant by the year 2066 . Roughly two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Americans say scientists will probably or definitely cure most forms of cancer within 50 years . None of the techniques that anchor this study are available for enhancing purposes today . But many people foresee a future where each would be commonplace . Roughly half of adults ( 54 % ) think the idea of implanted computer chips is likely to be a routine occurrence in the future . Some 48 % say humans will definitely or probably use implanted sensors to monitor or adjust all food and medications that enter the bloodstream by the year 2066 . And a similar share of adults , 47 % , foresees a future with almost no birth defects because of genetic modification of embryos prior to birth .
About one-in-four Americans ( 23 % ) say there has been a time when they took leave from work to care for a family member with a serious health condition . An additional one-in-four say that if this has n't happened to them already , it 's at least somewhat likely that it will in the future . Roughly two-thirds of all adults ( 67 % ) say workers should receive paid leave when they need to take time off to care for a sick family member , and most ( 60 % ) of those who took family leave in the past two years say they did receive at least partial pay while they were out of work . But the vast majority of those who received at least partial pay ( 86 % ) say some of that pay came from vacation , sick leave or personal time off . Relatively few of these workers ( 15 % ) say they received pay from a family and medical leave benefit provided by their employer . Workers who took maternity or paternity leave with at least some pay in the past two years are significantly more likely to report that they were paid , at least in part , through an employer-provided family or medical leave policy ( 28 % ) .
But a new Pew Research Center report on political polarization and media habits finds that a significant number of web-using adults get at least some of their news about government and politics from sources that they distrust – a concept that may seem puzzling . Nearly two-in-ten ( 19 % ) respondents from our survey said they get news from a source ( be it a cable news network , a news magazine or a news website ) that they distrust . This figure , though , is more pronounced among conservatives . About a quarter of both those with consistently conservative ( 26 % ) and mostly conservative ( 25 % ) political views consume at least one source that they distrust , compared with just 14 % of those with consistently liberal political views and 16 % of those with mostly liberal views . Still , most respondents ( 78 % ) get news only from outlets they trust or ones they neither trust nor distrust . ( Ideological consistency in this analysis is based on responses to 10 questions about a range of political values . )
The share of Indonesians who hold favorable views of China has declined over time amid concerns over increasing economic dependence on Beijing . In 2018 , 53 % had a favorable view of China , down from 66 % in 2014 , the year of the last Indonesian election . Confidence in the Chinese president to do the right thing regarding world affairs has remained relatively stable over time , with only 36 % of Indonesian adults expressing confidence in the current leader , Xi Jinping , and a similar share expressing confidence in President Hu Jintao in 2011 . However , in both 2011 and 2018 , roughly three-in-ten ( 31 % in both years ) offered no response .
More users are getting news on both sites than in the past . Nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) of Facebook users and the same share of Twitter users get news via each of the social media sites . This is up substantially from 2013 , when about half of each social network 's users ( 47 % for Facebook , 52 % for Twitter ) reported getting news there . ( In both studies , we defined news as `` information about events and issues beyond just friends and family . '' ) This increase in exposure to news among users emerges even as overall usage of each site has remained steady since 2013 : 17 % of U.S. adults use Twitter and two-thirds ( 66 % ) use Facebook . Overall , 10 % of all U.S. adults get news on Twitter , and 41 % get news on Facebook . Twitter news users see a somewhat greater mix of topics than Facebook news users . Two-thirds of Twitter news users ( 67 % ) regularly see at least six of the 11 news topics we asked about , compared with 57 % of Facebook news users . When it comes to the individual topics , four are seen at higher rates among Twitter news users than Facebook news users : sports , business , international news , and national government and politics . News users of both sites are roughly on par with each other for the remaining seven topics .
One possible consequence of generally negative opinions of refugees is that Europeans do not see growing diversity as making their countries better . In no EU country surveyed did more than four-in-ten say that having an increasing number of people from many different races , ethnic groups and nationalities makes their country a better place to live . And in two nations , Greece and Italy , more than half said that increasing diversity makes the country a worse place to live .
On a percentage basis , all 10 countries that are projected to experience the biggest growth in population by 2100 are in Africa , led by Niger ( 581 % increase ) , Angola ( 473 % ) and Tanzania ( 378 % ) . The biggest percentage decreases in population are expected in Eastern European nations , led by Albania ( -62 % ) , Serbia ( -52 % ) , and Moldova and Bosnia-Herzegovina ( both -50 % ) .
Eight-in-ten ( 80 % ) young adults ( those 18 - 29 ) say scrutiny of U.S. Muslims solely because of their religion should not be a part of the federal government 's efforts to prevent terrorism . And by about two-to-one ( 63 % vs. 30 % ) , those 30 to 49 years old also say this .
Most U.S. adults ( 58 % ) say they trust scientific research findings less if they hear that the research was funded by an industry group . About a third ( 32 % ) say industry funding makes no difference in whether they trust research , while only 10 % say they trust industry-funded research findings more . The pattern is similar when it comes to trusting science practitioners ' recommendations . Around six-in-ten Americans ( 62 % ) say they trust practitioner recommendations less when they hear the practitioner received financial incentives from an industry group . Around a quarter ( 27 % ) say such incentives make no difference ; 10 % say they trust practitioner recommendations more under these circumstances .
E-book reading is growing , but printed books still dominate the reading world . 28 % of American adults ages 18 and older read an e-book in the past year , up from 17 % in 2011 . Still , 69 % read a printed book , about the same as last year . Only 4 % of readers are `` e-book only '' readers . The vast majority of e-book readers also read a printed book .
About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) Israeli adults are Jewish , while the remainder are mostly ethnically Arab and religiously Muslim ( 14 % ) , Christian ( 2 % ) or Druze ( 2 % ) . Overall , the Arab religious minorities in Israel are more religiously observant than Jews . And these groups all are largely isolated from one another socially ; there is virtually no religious intermarriage in Israel , and strong majorities of Jews , Muslims , Christians and Druze say all or most of their close friends belong to their own religious group .
An estimated 36 % of U.S. public primary schools had sworn officers on site at least once a week in the 2015 - 16 school year , up from 21 % a decade earlier , according to the report from the National Center for Education Statistics and the Bureau of Justice Statistics . The share of primary schools with an officer present grew much faster during this period than the share of secondary schools with an officer on site , which increased from 58 % to 65 % . ( The most recent available data for both types of schools are for the 2015 - 16 school year . Primary schools are defined as schools where the lowest grade is not higher than grade three and the highest grade is not higher than grade eight . Secondary schools include middle and high schools , as well as combined schools . )
Americans continued to express strong interest in news about the death of Osama bin Laden and its ramifications last week , even as news coverage of the story continued to decline . About a quarter of the public ( 27 % ) says they followed reports about the killing of bin Laden and its impact on U.S. relations with Pakistan more closely than any other story , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted May 19 - 22 among 1,004 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . No one story dominated coverage , but the media devoted 15 % of the newshole last week – more than for any other story – to the attempted rape charges brought in New York against Dominique Strauss-Kahn , then the top official at the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) . Just 2 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The public showed more interest in news about flooding along the Mississippi River and the continuing struggles of the U.S. economy than in news about the former IMF leader , Strauss-Kahn . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the flooding most closely , while 15 % say the economy was their top story .
By comparison , opinions of the Democratic Party have shifted less – from 50 % favorable last summer to 48 % in March and 46 % in October . The party 's image has remained in negative territory among those living in Tea Party districts throughout this period– currently about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say they have a favorable view of the Democratic Party , while 50 % offer an unfavorable view .
The very different assumptions about fertility and migration result in a reasonably large range in population figures for Mexico in 2050 according to the various projections : This chart displays the historical information on Mexicans in the United States , as previously displayed , together with projections of Mexicans in the United States based on the CONAPO assumptions about Mexico-U.S. migration . The number of Mexicans in the United States is projected to increase steadily from 10.6 million in 2004 to more than 22 million in 2050 . At this time , more than 1-in-7 ( or 15 % ) of persons born in Mexico are projected to be living in the United States . In addition to the migrants in the United States , the Mexicans in the U.S. have children who , were the migrants still living in Mexico , would be Mexican-born . These post-2000 births also represent a sizeable group . By 2050 , these post-2000 births to Mexican immigrants living in the U.S. and their descendants amount to another almost 17 million persons in addition to the 22.2 million shown in the chart . Thus , the 39 million Mexican immigrants and their post-2000 U.S.-born descendants would be equal to about 30 % of the 130 million Mexicans projected to be living in Mexico .
Views of Sarah Palin also turned more negative : 38 % say their opinion of Palin has become less favorable in recent days , while 21 % say their opinion of the Alaska governor has become more favorable . Palin 's public image had improved significantly the week of the vice presidential debate . Since then , the views of Republicans , who rallied behind her after the debate , have become more static , and the views of independents have become less favorable .
Currently , 21 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say they can trust government , compared with 14 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . Throughout Obama 's tenure , more Democrats than Republicans reported trusting the government , though that has flipped since Trump 's election . Since the 1970s , trust in government has been consistently higher among members of the party that controls the White House than among the opposition party . However , Republicans have been much more reactive than Democrats to changes in political power . Republicans have expressed much higher levels of trust during Republican than during Democratic presidencies , while Democrats ' attitudes have tended to be more consistent , regardless of which party controls the White House .
A 2007 Pew Research Center survey found that while a majority of Americans ( 55 % ) oppose same-sex marriage , a sizable minority ( 37 % ) favor it , figures that have varied only slightly since 2001 . A 2006 Pew survey also found that a majority of Americans ( 54 % ) favor allowing civil unions , up from 45 % in 2003 .
The proportion favoring a quick withdrawal of U.S. forces has increased by eight points since last month ( from 48 % ) , immediately after the killing of Osama bin Laden . A year ago , just 40 % favored removing the troops as soon as possible , while 53 % favored keeping them in Afghanistan until the situation stabilized .
As 2020 census workers begin knocking on the doors of millions of U.S. households that have not returned their census questionnaires , four-in-ten U.S. adults who have not yet responded say they would not be willing to answer their door , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Among those who say they have not participated in the census , 40 % say they would not be willing to talk to a census worker who came to the door ; 59 % say they would be at least somewhat willing . Those who have not responded to the census so far , according to the survey , are disproportionately likely to be from groups the census has struggled to count accurately in previous decennial census collections , including the Black and Hispanic populations . Among adults in households that have not responded , 33 % say they are very willing to talk with a census worker who knocks on the door , and 27 % say they are somewhat willing . But 24 % say they are not too willing , and another 16 % say they are not willing at all .
A majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 83 % ) say their greater concern is that some states are making it too difficult for people to get an abortion . By 65 % to 33 % , Republicans and Republican leaners say their greater concern is that some states are making it too easy for people to get an abortion . Views on this question are closely related to overall views on whether abortion should be legal or illegal . Almost nine-in-ten of those who say abortion should be legal in all or most cases ( 88 % ) say their greater concern is that some states are making it too difficult to get an abortion . Among those who think abortion should be illegal in all or most cases , 83 % say their greater concern is over states making it too easy for people to get an abortion .
About two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they very closely followed news about possible candidates for the 2012 presidential election . That 's about the same level of interest as the previous week . Just 6 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the campaign made up 8 % of coverage , more than doubling its previous high this year , according to PEJ .
A June 2013 Global Attitudes survey found that nuclear proliferation in North Korea and Iran remain top priorities , as do Islamic extremist groups – over half of Americans rank each as a major threat to the United States . A second tier of threats that concern Americans includes China 's emergence as a world power , political instability in Pakistan and global climate change .
About half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 53 % ) say Mexico benefits more . That compares with 31 % of Republicans who say NAFTA benefits the two countries about equally and 7 % who say the U.S. benefits more than Mexico .
The global population is getting older : The number of people 65 and older is projected to triple by mid-century , from 531 million in 2010 to 1.5 billion in 2050 . In the U.S. , the population of seniors is expected to slightly more than double , from 41 to 86 million .
Majorities in Lebanon , Venezuela , South Africa , Colombia and India said they frequently or occasionally interact with people who have different religious beliefs than they do . On the other hand , in Mexico , Jordan , Vietnam and Tunisia , more than half of adults said these interfaith connections happened only rarely or never . Filipinos and Kenyans were split about the frequency of their exchanges with people of other religions .
In Oceania – which includes Australia , New Zealand and Papua New Guinea – the median age is 33 . About a quarter of people ( 24 % ) are below the age of 15 , and roughly one-fifth ( 18 % ) are 60 or older .
There is somewhat more disagreement among Ukrainians over the exact terms under which the oblasts of Luhans'k and Donets'k should remain part of Ukraine . Roughly half ( 51 % ) say these oblasts should have the same level of autonomy from the central government as they did before the crisis , while 33 % say they should have greater regional authority . Western Ukrainians are more supportive of reverting back to the situation before the crisis ( 61 % ) than granting increased autonomy to the regions ( 27 % ) . Eastern Ukrainians are divided – 37 % say they prefer the previous status quo while 41 % support more independence . Residents of the border oblasts are more supportive of greater autonomy ( 45 % ) than others in the east . Regardless of these regional divides , there is very little support in Ukraine for Luhans'k and Donets'k becoming either independent states ( 4 % ) or joining Russia ( 2 % ) . Russians , however , disagree . Just about a third says Donbas should stay part of Ukraine – either on the same terms as before ( 11 % ) or with greater autonomy ( 21 % ) . A majority ( 59 % ) believes they should secede , including 35 % who say they should become independent states and 24 % who think they should become part of Russia .
Majorities in both major parties believe censorship is likely occurring , but this belief is especially common – and growing – among Republicans . Nine-in-ten Republicans and independents who lean toward the Republican Party say it 's at least somewhat likely that social media platforms censor political viewpoints they find objectionable , up slightly from 85 % in 2018 , when the Center last asked this question .
Fully 22 % of 2014 voters were 65 and older — a group GOP candidates won by 16-points . By comparison , in 2012 , they made up just 16 % of the electorate .
Although most people worldwide described their day as typical ( median of 62 % ) and relatively few described it as particularly good ( median of 30 % ) , people in sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America were more likely to view their day positively . Roughly half of Africans ( median of 49 % ) and Latin Americans ( 48 % ) surveyed said their day was particularly good . Other regions – especially Europe ( 73 % ) – overwhelmingly described their day as typical ; only 22 % of Europeans said their day was good . The share of upbeat people was notably higher in several countries surveyed . Half or more responded that their day was good in Nigeria ( 73 % ) , Colombia ( 61 % ) , Ghana ( 60 % ) , Brazil ( 56 % ) , the Philippines ( 53 % ) and Peru ( 50 % ) .
Outside Lebanon , concern that extremists will take control of Syria is greatest in Israel ( 82 % ) and Jordan ( 76 % ) . The Turkish public again is somewhat less worried than its neighbors about events in Syria : only about half ( 49 % ) worry that extremists will emerge victorious from the battle with Bashar al-Assad 's government .
About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) Americans say that there should not be additional scrutiny of Muslims living in the U.S. solely based on their religion as a part of the federal government 's efforts to prevent terrorism . About a third ( 32 % ) say Muslims should be subject to greater scrutiny than people in other religious groups . There are wide partisan and ideological divisions on this question . Republicans are roughly evenly divided ( 49 % greater scrutiny , 44 % no additional scrutiny ) , while clear majorities of independents ( 62 % ) and Democrats ( 76 % ) say U.S. Muslims should not be subject to greater scrutiny because of their religion .
Fox still leads in audience , but that audience is smaller than it used to be . In 2013 , Fox 's prime-time viewership declined 6 % from the previous year , according to median monthly viewership data provided by Nielsen Media Research . But with 1.7 million viewers each evening , the channel still drew a bigger audience than CNN , MSNBC and HLN combined . Fox surpassed then-leader CNN in prime-time viewership in 2002 , and has never looked back . However , there is some evidence of a ceiling for audience growth . Fox has not increased its median evening viewership since 2009 .
In the 2013 survey , 84 % of LGBT adults said love was a very important reason to get married ; in a survey of the general public that year , 88 % shared that view . By wide margins , companionship and lifelong commitment were the next-most important reasons for LGBT adults , as well as for U.S. adults overall .
Asian American eligible voters are dispersed throughout the country , but more than half live in only three states . California alone holds 35 % of the U.S. Asian electorate ( 3.6 million ) . The state with the second-most Asian American eligible voters is New York ( 920,000 ) , followed by Texas ( 698,000 ) . Meanwhile , only in Hawaii do Asian Americans account for a larger share of eligible voters than any racial or ethnic group . They make up 38 % of the state 's eligible voters , by far the highest share in the country . California has the next highest share with 14 % .
Previous research suggests that populations with small pools of potential partners – such as people seeking a same-sex partner – are most likely to meet a partner online . The Pew Research Center analysis bears this out . Roughly four-in-ten people in same-sex relationships ( 37 % ) report meeting their partner online , compared with only 11 % of opposite-sex couples . These differences remain after taking age into account .
Support for the death penalty has long been divided by gender and race . In the new survey , about six-in-ten men ( 61 % ) say they are in favor of the death penalty and 34 % are opposed . Women 's views are more divided : 46 % favor the death penalty , while 45 % oppose it .
Americans ' opinions of immigrants have changed in recent years . In a new Pew Research Center survey , about six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 63 % ) say that immigrants strengthen the country through their hard work and talents . By contrast , about one-fourth ( 27 % ) say immigrants are a burden to the U.S. by taking jobs , housing and health care . The U.S. public 's views of immigrants have largely reversed since the 1990s , when 63 % said immigrants were a burden for the country and just under a third ( 31 % ) said immigrants strengthened the nation . Some groups of Americans hold more positive views of immigrants than others . For example , Democrats recently have been more likely than Republicans to say immigrants in the U.S. are a strength for the country . Also , younger age groups tend to hold more positive views than older generations .
Americans do n't spare themselves from criticism . In addressing the shortcomings of the political system , Americans do not spare themselves from criticism : Just 39 % say `` voters are knowledgeable about candidates and issues '' describes the country very or somewhat well . In addition , a 56 % majority say they have little or no confidence in the political wisdom of the American people . However , that is less negative than in early 2016 , when 64 % had little or no confidence . Since the presidential election , Republicans have become more confident in people 's political wisdom .
The American public is not happy with the nation 's political leadership . President Bush 's approval rating remains below 50 % , and just 39 % approve of the job performance of Republican congressional leaders . Despite the paltry ratings for GOP leaders , however , Democrats have failed to benefit . The public has about the same low regard for the job performance of Democratic leaders as for the Republicans ( 37 % approval ) . Public attitudes toward leaders in both parties have not changed much over the past year , but have declined markedly over the longer term . In early 2003 , at the start of the last congressional session , job approval ratings for both the president and GOP congressional leaders were significantly higher ( 58 % , 48 % respectively ) . And in early 2002 , only a few months after the 9/11 attacks , Americans were more unified behind the government and its leaders .
While 93 % of Democrats say Trump has definitely or probably done things that are grounds for impeachment – including 70 % who say he has definitely done such things – a smaller majority of Republicans ( 80 % ) say he has not . Fewer than half of Republicans ( 46 % ) say Trump has definitely not done things that are grounds for impeachment .
In addition , the public 's impression of economic news remains mixed at best , with very few saying they have been hearing mostly good news about the economy . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) say they have been hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , while half as many ( 31 % ) say they have been hearing mostly bad news about the economy . Very few ( 5 % ) report hearing mostly good economic news . These views have changed little in recent months .
Overall , 68 % of U.S. adults say childhood vaccinations should be required , while 30 % say parents should be able to decide . Among all age groups , young adults are more likely to say vaccinating children should be a parental choice . Some 41 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say parents should be able to decide whether or not their child gets vaccinated ; only 20 % of adults 65 or older echo this opinion .
Asked about a range of activities they have performed in response to the coronavirus outbreak , roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Americans say they have used email or messaging services to communicate with others , while 70 % report that they have searched online for information about the coronavirus . By comparison , fewer Americans – though still about four-in-ten – say they have shared or posted information about the outbreak on social media . As more companies move to encouraging – or requiring – telework , one-quarter of those surveyed say they have used video calling or an online conferencing service , like Zoom or WebEx , to attend a work-related meeting due to the coronavirus outbreak . Smaller shares of Americans ( 16 % ) report using the internet or email to connect with doctors or other medical professionals as a result of the outbreak .
Ideological organizations cover state government in 25 states across the country . ( Florida has the most ideological outlets , with three . ) They assign 53 reporters to statehouses , about one-third of them ( 17 ) full time and year round . The rest cover the statehouse part time ( 19 ) or during legislative sessions only ( 15 ) . Two others are college students .
The national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 9 - 12 among 1,006 adults , finds that just 18 % paid very close attention to Christie 's apology on Jan. 9 for the highway lane closures ordered by his aides . By contrast , 44 % very closely followed news about the cold winter weather that gripped much of the U.S. and 28 % tracked news about the economy . The release of a book by former Defense Secretary Robert Gates that criticized the Obama administration drew even less interest than news about Christie . Just 11 % followed news about Gates ' book very closely .
To get a glimpse of how America 's racial demographics are changing , take a look at the differences between mixed-race Americans old and young . The racial background of the largest group of multiracial babies ( 36 % ) is black and white , but just 18 % of mixed-race adults claim this background , according to Census Bureau data . A similar pattern emerges for mixed-race people whose background is black and American Indian – among adults , the share is 5 % , while among babies , it is just 1 % . And while almost a quarter of mixed-race babies are white and Asian , this share is just 18 % for adults .
Across the six issues , more voters expect say things would not change much under Clinton than under Trump . Roughly a third of voters say that on issues ranging from security from terrorism ( 36 % ) to the budget deficit ( 31 % ) , things will not be much different in the years ahead than they are today . In assessing a possible Trump presidency , smaller percentages – no more than about one-in-five –expect little change on any issue .
President Bush 's job approval rating reached its 2004 peak , at 58 % , in early January following the capture of Saddam Hussein . Since February , Bush 's ratings have fluctuated between 43 % and 48 % . Bush 's current standing ( 48 % approve , 43 % disapprove ) is somewhat higher than the 43 % rating he received in early April , after the eruption of violence in and around Fallujah , and his 44 % mark in May , following revelations of prisoner abuse by U.S. troops at Abu Ghraib .
Of the four potential developments we measured , public attitudes towards ubiquitous wearable or implanted computing devices are the most positive , or more accurately , the least negative . Although 53 % of Americans think it would be a bad thing if `` most people wear implants or other devices that constantly show them information about the world around them , '' just over one third ( 37 % ) think this would be a change for the better .
Other survey measures underscore the differences between police work and the typical job . For starters , these surveys suggest police view their jobs as more dangerous : Police officers are three times as likely as workers overall to say they nearly always or often have serious concerns about their physical safety while on the job ( 42 % vs. 14 % ) .
Looking ahead , those changes will become even more pronounced . Based on census data , Pew Research Center projects that the first- and second-generation immigrant segment of the American population will swell to 37 % by 2050 , compared with 15 % back in 1965 . This roughly matches the first- and second-generation immigrant percentage of the public at the turn of the 20th century , which was a high point in American immigration . ( For updated projections , see the Center 's September 2015 report `` Modern Immigration Wave Brings 59 Million to U.S. , Driving Population Growth and Change Through 2065 . '' )
When it comes to climate change and evolution , a majority of adults see scientists as generally in agreement that the earth is getting warmer due to human activity ( 57 % ) or that humans have evolved over time ( 66 % ) , though a sizeable minority see scientists as divided over each . Perceptions of where the scientific community stands on both climate change and evolution tend to be associated with individual views on the issue .
The black immigrant population has increased fivefold since 1980 . Immigrants are making up a growing number of the overall U.S. population – but the black immigrant population is growing twice as fast . There were 4.2 million black immigrants living in the U.S. in 2016 , up from 816,000 in 1980 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of census data . Since 2000 alone , the number of black immigrants in the U.S. has risen 71 % .
Military officers have considerably higher levels of educational attainment , on average , than enlisted personnel and U.S. adults . More than eight-in-ten DOD active-duty officers have at least a bachelor 's degree , including 42 % who hold an advanced degree . They are four times as likely as average adults ages 18 to 44 to have completed a postgraduate degree . The educational profile of enlisted personnel is much different . The vast majority of enlisted personnel ( 92 % ) have completed high school or some college . This compares with 60 % of all U.S. adults ages 18 to 44 . Fewer than one-in-ten enlisted personnel ( 7 % ) have a bachelor 's degree , compared with 19 % of all adults ages 18 to 44 .
For the first time , the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project has found that cell phone ownership among adults has exceeded 90 % . Cell phones are now being used by 91 % of adults , according to the survey conducted between April 17 and May 19 of 2,252 adults .
When it comes to views of how accepting society in general is of people who do n't identify as either a man or a woman , a plurality of Americans ( 41 % ) say society is not accepting enough , while roughly a third ( 32 % ) say it is too accepting and a quarter say it is about right . Views diverge sharply by partisanship and age here too , with Democrats and younger adults more likely than Republicans and those who are older to say society is not accepting enough of people who do n't identify as a man or a woman .
For some , checking for GM food labels is something they routinely do . Half of the public say they at least sometimes look for GM labeling when food shopping , including a quarter who say they always do so .
U.S. births are in the news again , with the release today of 2012 statistics indicating a flattening of the sharp decline in fertility that accompanied the Great Recession . The number of U.S. births in 2012 was not statistically different from 2011 , and the birth rate barely declined , according to the National Center for Health Statistics . Here are the preliminary numbers : There were 3,952,937 babies born in the U.S. , no different statistically from the 3,953,590 born the year before . The fertility rate was 63.0 births per 1,000 women of childbearing age , only slightly lower than 63.2 in 2011 , which itself had been the lowest on record .
While news reports did not always provide the exact number of newsroom staff being laid off , some broad conclusions can be drawn from the data . Of the 35 newspapers for which the Center could determine the number of laid-off newsroom staff , about half ( 49 % ) laid off 10 or fewer employees , according to the analysis . The cuts tended to be larger at eight digital-native news outlets where the number of layoffs could be determined : Only one outlet laid off fewer than 10 employees . ( For more details on how these were counted , see the methodology . ) The prevalence of layoffs at newspapers in the analysis during the 16-month study period reflects recent employment trends in the newspaper sector , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics . Between 2014 and 2017 , the number of newspaper newsroom employees dropped by 15 % , from about 46,000 to about 39,000 . There was no significant change in digital-native newsroom employees , however , as the number remained around 11,000 to 13,000 over the same three-year period . Layoffs at digital-native news outlets , in other words , may have been offset by hiring at other outlets , which was not part of this analysis .
Amid these changes , about four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) say that when a form or online profile asks about a person 's gender , it should include options other than `` man '' and `` woman '' for people who do n't identify as either , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2018 . Still , a majority ( 56 % ) says that forms should not include other gender options . Younger adults are more likely than their older counterparts to support including third gender options on forms or online profiles . Roughly half of Americans ages 18 to 29 ( 53 % ) say that forms should include other gender options , compared with 43 % of those ages 30 to 49 , 37 % of those 50 to 64 and 35 % of those 65 and older .
Losses for Catholics have meant gains for Protestant churches and the category of people who do not identify with any religion . Just 9 % of adults in the region were raised Protestant and 4 % were raised unaffiliated , but twice as many now describe themselves as Protestants ( 19 % ) or unaffiliated ( 8 % ) . Most Protestants across Latin America identify as Pentecostal Christians or are members of Pentecostal denominations .
A recent Pew Research survey asked about specific types of support adults may have provided for their aging parents in the last 12 months . About six-in-ten adults with at least one parent age 65 or older say they have helped their parent with errands , housework or home repairs .
The already considerable amount of time devoted to sports , weather and traffic on local newscasts rose even higher among the stations studied in the Pew Research Center 's latest State of the News media report . Airtime on those subjects increased from 32 % 2005 to 40 % in 2012 . The biggest increase came in the airtime devoted to sports , to 12 % from 7 % . The traffic and weather components of the newscast increased by a smaller percentage ( to 29 % from 25 % ) , but four in ten of the newscasts examined in the study led with a weather story . The topics people seek out the most on local TV news — weather and breaking news ( and to a lesser extent , traffic ) — are ripe for replacement by any number of Web- and mobile-based outlets . While many stations ramped up their digital news offerings in the past year , they are late to the digital game .
People in the region are divided about whether increasing economic sanctions or deepening ties is the better response to North Korea 's nuclear program . Although people in the Asia-Pacific countries surveyed are largely united in their concerns about the nuclear program , there is no clear consensus about how best to deal with the issue . Among the more economically developed countries , the preference is for increasing economic sanctions . Half or more Americans , Japanese , South Koreans and Australians believe increasing sanctions will be more effective than deepening ties . But opinion is more divided in the developing countries in the region . A plurality of Vietnamese and Filipinos say the nuclear problem should be handled by deepening ties with North Korea , and in Indonesia , large shares volunteered that neither was a good strategy ( 18 % ) or said they did not know ( 23 % ) . Japanese and South Koreans expect the U.S. to come to their aid in the event of a conflict with North Korea – and Americans support such a move . Two close neighbors of North Korea , Japan and South Korea , are also U.S. treaty allies , meaning that if North Korea used military force against them , the U.S. would be obligated to defend them . In both countries , large majorities expect this would happen : 91 % of South Koreans expect U.S. assistance in the event of a military conflict with North Korea , and 82 % of Japanese say the same . Nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say the U.S. should use military force to defend its allies in Asia in the event that they get into a serious military conflict with North Korea .
These are the main findings of an April 2009 survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project survey . They highlight the growing importance of such sites to internet users and reflect the changes in the audience for classified ads – both those who place them and those who make purchases – that have devastated a key revenue source for traditional newspapers .
A record 40 % of all households with children under the age of 18 include mothers who are either the sole or primary source of income for the family .
Bill Clinton ‘ s favorability rating has rebounded since February 2008 to match all-time highs . In the current survey , 67 % hold a favorable opinion of the former president , while 29 % have an unfavorable view . Since February 2008 – during the contentious Democratic primary battle between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama – Bill Clinton 's overall favorability ratings have climbed 15 points .
The partisan divide over the use of U.S. ground forces is stark : 63 % of Republicans favor the use of U.S. ground forces in Iraq and Syria ; an identical percentage of Democrats are opposed . Independents are divided ( 48 % oppose , 44 % favor ) .
The data clearly show that incomes are higher for immigrants who have been in the U.S. for more than 10 years , compared with more recently arrived immigrants . Average family income for both legal immigrants and refugees in the U.S. for more than 10 years is only 2–3 % below that of natives . For longer-term naturalized citizen families , average family income is 23 % higher than native income . The incomes of unauthorized migrants do not show the same pattern of increase with longer durations of residence . For those in the U.S. more than 10 years , family incomes are only about one-sixth higher than the shorter-term unauthorized ( $ 29,900 versus $ 25,700 ) and remain 35 % below the incomes of native families . The relatively low incomes of unauthorized migrants in the country for more than 10 years most likely reflects a lack of opportunities for economic mobility among those who remain in an unauthorized status . Many unauthorized migrants are able to become legal immigrants after 10 or more years in the U.S. Those who are left as unauthorized may not be able to take advantage of a range of jobs available ; that is , they may be `` stuck '' in lower-paying jobs .
In general , about two-thirds of the public say they are `` very sympathetic '' ( 23 % ) or `` somewhat sympathetic '' ( 42 % ) toward immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally . Another 15 % are somewhat unsympathetic and 17 % are very unsympathetic . That sentiment is similar to feelings in June 2013 , although the share saying `` very sympathetic '' has risen 7 points .
The U.S. receives higher favorable ratings in Africa than in any other region . Our 2015 survey found mostly positive ratings for the U.S. around the globe , but they were especially high in Africa – across the nine nations surveyed in the region , a median of 79 % expressed a favorable opinion of the U.S. , while just 10 % had an unfavorable view . Key elements of American soft power are embraced in Africa . As our 2013 survey highlighted , publics in the region tend to express positive attitudes toward American science and technology , ways of doing business , ideas about democracy , and popular culture . Moreover , a median of 56 % said it was good that American ideas and customs were spreading to their country – a higher percentage than in the other regions where we asked this question in 2012 and 2013 .
Among those who identify solely as Taiwanese , there is little enthusiasm about the mainland . Favorable views of the U.S. among this group are three times higher than toward mainland China ( 75 % vs. 23 % ) . But , among those who identify as both Chinese and Taiwanese , majorities have favorable views of both the U.S. and mainland China .
Perceptions of the future stability of the government in Afghanistan have become more negative since last measured in June 2011 . Four years ago , the public also had doubts about the ability of Afghanistan to maintain a stable government after the withdrawal of U.S. troops , but doubts outweighed optimism by a narrower margin ( 57 % unlikely vs. 38 % likely ) . Fully 68 % of Americans say it is either very unlikely ( 35 % ) or somewhat unlikely ( 33 % ) that Afghanistan will be able to maintain a stable government after U.S. forces leave the country . About a quarter ( 24 % ) say it is somewhat likely Afghanistan will be able to maintain a stable government and just 5 % say this is very likely .
Age gaps are evident on many of these values . Older adults are more inclined to prioritize teaching religious faith to the next generation , a pattern that is in keeping with the growth of the religiously unaffiliated among the younger generations . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of those ages 65 and older say this is important to teach , and fully 41 % regard it as one of the most important qualities to instill ; by contrast , just 40 % of those younger than 30 rate teaching religious faith as important and 17 % name it as one of the most important qualities .
Marrying within the faith is still common in the United States , with nearly seven-in-ten married people ( 69 % ) saying that their spouse shares their religion , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . But a comparison of recent and older marriages shows that having a spouse of the same religion may be less important to many Americans today than it was decades ago . Our Religious Landscape Study found that almost four-in-ten Americans ( 39 % ) who have married since 2010 have a spouse who is in a different religious group . By contrast , only 19 % of those who wed before 1960 report being in a religious intermarriage . Many of these recent interfaith marriages are between Christians and the religiously unaffiliated ( sometimes called `` nones '' ) . Of all U.S. adults married since 2010 , almost one-in-five ( 18 % ) are in marriages between a Christian and a religiously unaffiliated spouse . This is true for only 5 % of those who married before 1960 .
Currently , 54 % approve of the health care law passed seven years ago by Barack Obama and Congress , while 43 % disapprove , according to a national Pew Research Center survey conducted Feb. 7 - 12 among 1,503 adults . Throughout the law 's history , opinions about the Affordable Care Act have tended to be more negative than positive — or , less frequently , divided . As recently as December , about as many approved ( 48 % ) as disapproved ( 47 % ) of the law .
Scientists overwhelmingly agree that humans evolved over time , and most Americans are aware that this is the case . Among scientists connected to the American Association for the Advancement of Science , 98 % say they believe humans evolved over time . Roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Americans perceive that most biological scientists hold this view , according to the new study . Those in the general public who reject evolution are divided on whether there is a scientific consensus on the topic : 46 % say most biological scientists think humans have evolved due to processes such as natural selection , and 52 % say most biological scientists think humans have always existed in their present form .
Democrats and Republicans disagree now more than ever on the news media 's `` watchdog '' role . Roughly nine-in-ten Democrats say news media criticism keeps political leaders from doing things that should n't be done , compared with 42 % of Republicans ­who say this – the widest gap in Pew Research Center surveys conducted since 1985 . This stands in stark contrast to early 2016 , when similar shares of Democrats ( 74 % ) and Republicans ( 77 % ) supported the media 's watchdog role .
The immigrants who have recently come to the United States are the most highly educated in history . A new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data shows that 41 % of immigrants arriving here in the past five years had completed at least a bachelor 's degree . By comparison , only 20 % of newly arrived immigrants in 1970 were similarly educated .
More than four-in-ten Americans ( 43 % ) say they heard a lot last week about the dramatic exit by JetBlue flight attendant Steven Slater from his plane at New York 's Kennedy Airport after an argument with a passenger . A quarter ( 25 % ) say they heard a little about how Slater had quit his job , opened the plane door and hopped on the emergency exit chute . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they heard nothing at all about this story . Fewer say they heard a lot ( 30 % ) about controversies over plans for mosques in several U.S. cities . Debate over building a mosque near the World Trade Center site in New York City continued to generate controversy this week , especially after a series of comments by President Obama about the issue over the weekend . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they heard a little about this issue , while 41 % say they had heard nothing at all . Close to four-in-ten Republicans ( 38 % ) say they heard a lot about this , compared with 28 % of Democrats ; 30 % of independents say they heard a lot as well . Just more than two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they heard a lot about the debate about changing the Constitution so that children of non-citizens born in the United States would no longer automatically be U.S. citizens . Another 37 % heard a little about this debate , while 40 % say they heard nothing at all . On this , there are no significant differences among partisans . Awareness of that story was similar to awareness of news about the arrest of a man suspected of stabbing as many as 20 people . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they heard a lot about this story , 36 % say they heard a little and 43 % say they had heard nothing at all .
A deep analysis of local news in Denver , Macon , Ga. , and Sioux City , Iowa , finds that in each city at least three-in-ten people follow crime very closely and more than half of residents often discuss crime with others . Interest in crime , though , is not equal across all residents in these cities , as seen in Denver and Macon , where racial and ethnic subgroups were large enough to analyze . In Denver , Hispanics ( 19 % of the city 's population ) follow crime news very closely at nearly twice the rate of whites , 49 % versus 26 % . And seven-in-ten Hispanics in Denver often discuss crime news , compared with 49 % of whites . In Macon , blacks ( 41 % of the city 's residents ) differ from whites in the amount of attention they devote to crime news to nearly the same degree . About six-in-ten blacks very closely follow crime news , compared with less than half ( 43 % ) of whites . And , while a vast majority of both blacks and whites discuss crime , blacks do so at higher rates ( 86 % vs. 76 % ) .
Americans think automation will likely disrupt a number of professions – but they are less likely to foresee an impact on their own jobs . In the Center 's 2017 survey , around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 77 % ) said it was very or somewhat likely that fast food workers would be replaced by robots or computers in their lifetimes , while about two-thirds ( 65 % ) said the same about insurance claims processors . Around half said automation would replace the jobs of software engineers and legal clerks , while smaller shares said it would affect construction workers , teachers or nurses . Three-in-ten Americans said their own jobs would become automated in their lifetimes . ( A slightly different question was asked in the 2018 survey . )
The public also remains interested in news about the U.S. economy , though the percent of Americans following the financial crisis very closely has slipped considerably since its high in late September amid talk of an imminent global economic meltdown . About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say they were following news about the economy very closely last week , which is little changed since early January ( 42 % ) . In late September , 70 % said they were tracking economic news very closely . While the percent of Americans following economic news very closely has gotten smaller since September , the public remains highly concerned about the nation 's economic health and rising unemployment . Strengthening the economy and improving the job situation top the public 's list of priorities for 2009 [ See `` Economy , Jobs Trump All Other Policy Priorities In 2009 '' released Jan. 22 , 2008 ] .
Regardless of whether they are formally registered with a church , people in countries with a mandatory church tax are more likely to self-identify as Christian than are people in Western European countries that do not have any church tax system . In four of the six countries with a mandatory church tax – Austria , Finland , Switzerland and Germany – roughly seven-in-ten or more adults identify as Christians . By contrast , in only two of the six countries surveyed that do not have a church tax – the UK and Ireland – does the share of Christians exceed seven-in-ten . And across Western Europe , the country with the smallest share of Christians ( the Netherlands , 41 % ) does not have a church tax . In some church tax countries , the share of people who identify as Christian generally is declining more slowly than in countries that do not have such taxes . In all 15 Western European countries surveyed , fewer people say they are currently Christian than say they were raised Christian . But the countries with the steepest drops in Christian identification – including Belgium , Norway and the Netherlands – do not have church taxes . And some of the countries with the smallest drops in Christian identification , such as Switzerland and Austria , do have a church tax .
The public 's views of Congress continue to hover near all-time lows . Just 22 % have a favorable opinion of Congress — equal to its rating last December — while 72 % feel unfavorably about Congress . With the GOP now in control of both houses of Congress , Republicans ' views of the institution are only slightly more positive than Democrats ' _ : 29 % of Republicans have a favorable opinion of Congress , compared with 22 % of Democrats ( and 19 % of independents ) .
Besides speaking Spanish to their children , Hispanic parents can pass on the language by regularly encouraging their children to speak it . About 70 % of all Hispanic parents say they provide such encouragement often , but again , successive generations are less likely than immigrant parents to say they do this .
Nearly a third ( 31 % ) name the debate in Washington over health care reform as their top story , more than the share who cite the economy ( 19 % ) or the arrest of Henry Louis Gates Jr. ( 17 % ) . In addition , the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted July 24 - 27 among 1,018 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press , finds that more than four-in-ten ( 44 % ) say they followed health care news very closely , up from 33 % in the previous week and 24 % two weeks prior . Public interest in health care has risen hand-in-hand with the level of media coverage the story has received . According to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , a quarter of the newshole was devoted to health care last week , more than double the level of overall coverage given to any other story . This marks the highest level of media attention given to the topic since PEJ began the News Coverage Index in 2007 . And , as coverage has risen steadily over the past three weeks , public attention to health care has also climbed : almost doubling since mid-July .
The legacy of the 2001 attack on the World Trade Center and subsequent terrorist incidents at home and abroad still cast a long shadow over many Americans . The survey , conducted Oct. 30-Nov. 6 , found that 75 % of Americans said that extremist groups like al Qaeda pose a major threat to the U.S. That level of concern was virtually unchanged since 2009 .
While there is support for making it easy for citizens to vote , the public is largely opposed to making voting required in national elections . Only two-in-ten ( 20 % ) would favor mandatory voting , while nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) says citizens should be able to decide for themselves whether or not to vote in national elections .
Applying this technique to monthly data and quarterly population averages as well as to three-month rolling averages produces similar results : The trend line slopes up more steeply in 2004 and 2005 than in 2006 . Figure 4 is based on regression analyses of quarterly averages .1 It shows a broad trend of increasing growth from the last quarter of 2004 through the second quarter of 2006 and a flattening of the growth rate since then .
In general , people in richer nations are less likely than those in poorer nations to say religion plays a very important role in their lives . But Americans are more likely than their counterparts in economically advanced nations to deem religion very important . More than half ( 54 % ) of Americans said religion was very important in their lives , much higher than the share of people in Canada ( 24 % ) , Australia ( 21 % ) and Germany ( 21 % ) , the next three wealthiest economies we surveyed from 2011 through 2013 .
In the days before Barack Obama and George W. Bush took the oath of office , majorities also said it was too early to tell how successful their presidencies would be . But in both cases , those that did offer predictions were more likely to say each would be successful than unsuccessful . For example , in 2009 30 % said Obama would be successful while just 4 % predicted he would be unsuccessful ; 65 % said it was too early to tell .
Americans are extremely displeased with Congress , and there are already some signs that this could take a toll on the Democrats in the 2010 midterm elections . Currently , 37 % express a favorable opinion of Congress , while 52 % hold an unfavorable view . Positive opinions of Congress have declined by 13 points since April and are now at one of their lowest points in more than two decades of Pew Research Center surveys .
Since 2013 , majorities of both Democrats and Republicans have said that undocumented immigrants living in the U.S. should be allowed to stay in this country legally . But partisan differences on this issue have increased as well .
About four-in-ten longtime residents in Sioux City ( 40 % ) and Macon ( 38 % ) and about three-in-ten in Denver ( 29 % ) say that the quality of local news has gotten better ; only a small minority in each city says that it has gotten worse . The same pattern holds for thinking that keeping up with local news is easier ; roughly four-in-ten longtime residents in each city say this .
Overall , Clinton supporters are much more confident of victory than are Trump supporters . Fully 92 % of registered voters who support Clinton for president expect her to win ; 69 % of Trump supporters expect him to win .
Meanwhile , foreign-born shares among whites and blacks are expected to rise . Today , 8.9 % of those who identify as black were born in another country , but that number is projected to almost double – to 16.5 % – by 2060 . Among whites , 4.1 % are foreign-born today , but that share is projected to double to 8.1 % in 2060 .
Following the Senate Intelligence Committee 's report on CIA interrogation practices in the period following the Sept. 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks , 51 % of the public says they think the CIA methods were justified , compared with just 29 % who say they were not justified ; 20 % do not express an opinion . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Dec. 11 - 14 among 1,001 adults , finds that amid competing claims over the effectiveness of CIA interrogation methods , 56 % believe they provided intelligence that helped prevent terrorist attacks , while just half as many ( 28 % ) say they did not provide this type of intelligence . Overall , the public expresses the most doubt not about the CIA methods and program itself , but about the Senate committee 's decision to release its report : as many call the decision to publicly release the findings the wrong decision ( 43 % ) as the right decision ( 42 % ) .
Only , in neighboring Canada does a 53 % -majority describe Americans as rude . Interestingly , Americans themselves are more likely to assign that negative characteristic to their fellow countrymen ( 35 % do so ) than are the residents of Great Britain ( 29 % ) , the Netherlands ( 26 % ) and Poland ( 21 % ) . And a scant 12 % of Germans find Americans lacking in politeness . Looking farther around the globe , however , one finds other countries that share Canada 's reservations with regard to American gentility . ( See chart below ) . In Turkey , an identical 53 % see Americans as rude . This view is shared by larger majorities in Indonesia ( 56 % ) and Jordan ( 64 % ) .
South Korea has no majority religious group . Its population includes a plurality of people with no religious affiliation ( 46 % ) and significant shares of Christians ( 29 % ) and Buddhists ( 23 % ) . South Korea 's current president , Park Geun-hye , is an atheist with connections to Buddhism and Catholicism , according to the Council on Foreign Relations . In 1900 , only 1 % of the country 's population was Christian , but largely through the efforts of missionaries and churches , Christianity has grown rapidly in South Korea over the past century . In 2010 , roughly three-in-ten South Koreans were Christian , including members of the world 's largest Pentecostal church , Yoido Full Gospel Church , in Seoul .
The U.S. Census Bureau publishes two measures of income inequality each year . According to the most recent report , the top 5 % of households received 21.8 % of `` equivalence-adjusted '' aggregate income in 2014 , while the bottom 60 % received just 27.1 % . ( Equivalence-adjusted estimates factor in different household sizes and compositions . )
Democratic support for the law , which dipped in December , has increased 12 points since then ( from 73 % to 85 % ) . There has been little recent change in Republicans ' views of the health care law .
The rise in support for same-sex marriage has been confirmed by every major national survey organization tracking the issue . But the balance of opinion differs based on the wording of the question . The Pew Research Center question asks : `` Do you strongly favor , favor , oppose , or strongly oppose allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally ? '' The March 13 - 17 survey finds 49 % in favor and 44 % opposed . A Washington Post/ABC News survey , conducted March 7 - 10 , asks a different question : `` Do you think it should be legal or illegal for gay and lesbian couples to get married ? '' This question has consistently elicited a higher level of support for same-sex marriage ; the latest survey found 58 % saying legal and 36 % illegal . These two surveys show that more Americans oppose making same-sex marriage legal ( 44 % in the Pew Research Center poll ) than favor making it illegal ( 36 % in the Washington Post/ABC News poll ) . Both organizations have tracked their questions since 2003 , and the Washington Post/ABC News poll has consistently found higher support for same-sex marriage . However , the two polls tell the same story : significant growth in support for same-sex marriage over the last 10 years .
The devastating earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan late last week dominated the public 's news interest – and news media coverage – in the days following the March 11 disaster . Roughly half ( 52 % ) of the public say they very closely followed news about the massive earthquake off the northeast coast of Japan and the tsunami that followed , according to the latest News Interest Index survey , conducted March 10 - 13 among 1,001 adults . The Japan disaster was by far the top story of the week – 46 % say this was the news they followed most closely last week ; no other story came close .
A higher percentage of men ( 58 % ) than women ( 45 % ) are following candidate news very or fairly closely . Women are nearly twice as likely as men ( 20 % vs. 12 % ) to say they are following candidate news not at all closely . The level of engagement with candidate news increases steadily with age , a pattern seen in previous research about news more generally . Among those ages 18 to 29 , 39 % are following news about the candidates very or fairly closely . The percentage rises to 46 % among those ages 30 to 49 , 57 % among those ages 50 to 64 and around two-thirds ( 66 % ) of those 65 and older . Americans 65 and older are more than twice as likely as those 18 to 29 to say they are following candidate news very closely ( 30 % vs. 12 % ) . In the new survey , differences by gender , race , ethnicity and age are similar to those in the Feb. 18-March 2 survey . But in nearly all these demographic groups , the share of people who are fairly or very closely following candidate news has declined since February . One exception is among the youngest adults : In both surveys , 39 % of those ages 18 to 29 said they are paying fairly or very close attention to news about the candidates .
However , a new Pew Research Center survey of Pakistan suggests Sharif can draw on a significant base of public support . Sixty-four percent of Pakistanis have a favorable opinion of the Prime Minister , unchanged from the 66 % who expressed this view in a survey conducted weeks before his election victory last year . About a third ( 32 % ) give Sharif an unfavorable rating .
There were just over 5 million job openings on the last business day of 2014 ( after adjusting for seasonal variations ) , according to the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey ( known as JOLTS ) , which is produced by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics . While that was little changed from November 's level , it was the highest figure since January 2001 , just before the dot-com bust . While job openings have been increasing since the latter part of 2009 , the pace accelerated markedly last year . Employers hired more than 5.1 million people in December , according to the JOLTS report — again , little changed from November , but the strongest monthly showing since late 2007 . Over the full year , hiring increased particularly strongly in the construction and finance/insurance industries — both of which had been hit especially hard by the housing bubble 's collapse .
UPDATE , 12:35 p.m. Half of Millennials call themselves independent , versus 27 % Democrats and 17 % Republicans . `` That 's a number you do n't often see , '' said Carroll Doherty , director of political research at the Pew Research Center . But when you include those who `` lean '' toward one party or another , half identify with the Democratic Party versus 34 % for the Republican Party .
Republicans remain more skeptical than Democrats about the seriousness of Iranian leaders . Fully 80 % of Republicans who have heard at least a little about the negotiations say Iranian leaders are not serious about addressing international concerns over the country 's nuclear program . A majority of independents ( 64 % ) and only about half of Democrats ( 48 % ) say Iranian leaders are not serious about addressing these concerns ( based on those who have heard at least a little about U.S.-Iran negotiations ) .
As was the case throughout the presidential campaign , more Americans continue to oppose ( 62 % ) than favor ( 35 % ) building a wall along the entire U.S. border with Mexico . And while President Donald Trump has said the U.S. would make Mexico pay for the wall , the public is broadly skeptical : 70 % think the U.S. would ultimately pay for the wall , compared with just 16 % who think Mexico would pay for it .
The public is divided over President Obama 's recent executive action that expands the number of undocumented immigrants permitted to stay and work in the U.S. At the same time , Americans continue to broadly support a pathway to legal status for people in this country illegally . About as many disapprove ( 50 % ) as approve ( 46 % ) of Obama 's action , which could make up to 4 million people newly eligible for deportation relief . Roughly eight-in-ten Republicans ( 82 % ) disapprove of the executive action and about seven-in-ten Democrats ( 71 % ) approve of it , with very strong attitudes on both sides .
The market turnarounds are having a limited effect on the public 's economic outlook because they are not what affect people 's personal financial situation . When people are asked to consider the personal impact of different economic factors , just 32 % say their household finances are affected a lot by real estate values , while even fewer ( 23 % ) say that the stock market has a major effect .
Americans are reluctant to incorporate these types of technologies into their own lives . When asked whether they would or would not personally use specific automation technologies , around six-in-ten U.S. adults say they would not want to ride in a driverless car ( 56 % ) or have a robot caregiver for themselves or a family member ( 59 % ) . Views on applying for a job that uses a computer program to evaluate and select applicants are even more negative : 76 % of Americans say they would not want to apply .
More than eight-in-ten Hispanics ( 86 % ) favor Congress passing a law granting permanent legal status to immigrants who came illegally to the U.S. as children . This comes as the U.S. Supreme Court evaluates the Trump administration 's decision to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals ( DACA ) , a program that has protected about 800,000 unauthorized immigrants who came to the U.S. as children – most of them from Mexico . Hispanic Democrats ( 92 % ) and Republicans ( 77 % ) both broadly support Congress creating a path to legal status for immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children .
The survey – which , again , was largely completed before Barr 's report on the Mueller investigation – finds that 64 % of Americans say that Trump definitely ( 33 % ) or probably ( 31 % ) has done something illegal while in office or when he was running for president . Only half as many ( 32 % ) say he definitely or probably has not done things that are illegal . An even larger share ( 72 % ) thinks Trump definitely or probably has done something unethical – with 46 % saying he has definitely done this .
China 's reputation among Americans had already fallen to an all-time low in Pew Research Center polling as of March , with roughly two-thirds viewing the country unfavorably . Now , a survey conducted April 29 to May 5 finds that Americans expect China 's international reputation will suffer because of how the country has handled the coronavirus outbreak , which originated within its borders . Americans are also critical of how China has handled the global pandemic and are skeptical of information from the Chinese government . Americans are very critical of the way China has handled the coronavirus outbreak . Nearly two-thirds of Americans say China has not handled the global pandemic well , rating its performance as the worst ( alongside Italy ) among the six countries asked about in the April and May survey . And more give China the lowest possible rating – poor – for its dealings with the coronavirus than they do any other country ( 37 % , compared with 27 % who said the same of Italy ) .
Among the public overall , 71 % say undocumented immigrants living in the United States mostly fill jobs citizens do not want , while just 24 % say they mostly take jobs citizens want . About three-quarters of Americans ( 76 % ) say undocumented immigrants are `` as honest and hard-working '' as U.S. citizens , while 67 % say they are no more likely than U.S. citizens to commit serious crimes . As with views of immigration policy priorities , partisans differ in views of undocumented immigrants . Yet majorities of both Democrats ( 79 % ) and Republicans ( 63 % ) say that those who are in the U.S. illegally mostly take jobs U.S. citizens do n't want . Majorities in both parties also say undocumented immigrants are as honest and hard-working as U.S. citizens ( 87 % of Democrats , 65 % of Republicans ) . There is a sharper divide in perceptions of criminality among undocumented immigrants . By a wide margin ( 80 % to 15 % ) , Democrats say those in the U.S. illegally are no more likely than citizens to commit serious crimes . Among Republicans , about half ( 52 % ) say undocumented immigrants are not more likely than citizens to commit serious crimes , but 42 % say they are – more than double the share of Democrats who say this . Hispanics overwhelmingly think undocumented immigrants currently living in the U.S. are as honest and hardworking as American citizens ( 86 % ) , and that they fill jobs that American citizens do not want ( 79 % ) ; and Hispanics are somewhat more likely than white and black Americans to express these views . Similarly , more Hispanics than whites think undocumented immigrants are no more likely than American citizens to commit serious crimes : Nearly three-quarters of Hispanics think this ( 74 % ) , compared with two-thirds of whites .
The proportion of all legal foreign-born residents who have become naturalized U.S. citizens rose to 52 % in 2005 , the highest level in a quarter of a century and a 15 percentage point increase since 1990 , according to an analysis by the Pew Hispanic Center . By 2005 ( the last year for which figures are available ) , naturalized citizens accounted for slightly more than one-in-two ( 52 % ) legal foreign-born residents . Among all 36 million foreign-born residents in 2005 , naturalized citizens made up a slim plurality ( 35 % ) over legal non-citizens ( 33 % ) and unauthorized migrants ( 31 % ) . In 1995 , legal non-citizens had accounted for a near majority ( 47 % ) of the 24 million foreign-born residents who were in the country at the time , compared with 30 % who were naturalized citizens and 20 % who were unauthorized migrants .
At the outset of Donald Trump 's third year in office , the public 's to-do list for the president and the 116th Congress spans domains with the economy , health care costs , education and preventing terrorism all cited as top priorities by majorities of Americans . Improving the economy ( 70 % top priority ) remains among the public 's highest priorities , but its prominence has waned significantly in recent years . In 2011 , following the Great Recession , 87 % called it a top priority . And as public ratings of the employment situation have grown increasingly positive , 50 % now say improving the job situation should be a top priority ; in each of the previous 10 years , majorities cited jobs as a top priority , including 84 % who said this in 2011 and 68 % who said this as recently as 2017 . As economic and security concerns have become less prominent , the domestic issues of reducing health care costs ( 69 % top priority ) and improving the educational system ( 68 % ) now rank among the top tier of public priorities . About two-thirds also say that taking steps to make the Social Security ( 67 % ) and Medicare ( 67 % ) systems financially sound are top priorities for the country .
These results from September 2005 represent a sharp increase from mid-2004 . Pew Internet Project data from June 2004 show that use of search engines on a typical day has risen from 30 % to 41 % of the internet-using population , which itself has grown in the past year . This means that the number of those using search engines on an average day jumped from roughly 38 million in June 2004 to about 59 million in September 2005 – an increase of about 55 % . comScore data , which are derived from a different methodology , show that from September 2004 to September 2005 the average daily use of search engines jumped from 49.3 million users to 60.7 million users – an increase of 23 % .
Democrats have consistently expressed more interest in news about the campaign than have either Republicans or independents . In October weekly news interest surveys , 59 % of Democrats said they were following the campaign , compared with 49 % of Republicans and 48 % of independents .
Fully 90 % of Americans think people pretend to be someone else in order to try to steal people 's personal information often or sometimes , with roughly half ( 49 % ) saying they think this happens often . While these overall shares are fairly consistent across demographic groups , there is more variation across groups on whether people often pretend to be someone else to steal information . Black adults ( 63 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 56 % ) are more likely than White ( 45 % ) or Asian adults ( 35 % ) to say this type of attempted theft happens often . Additionally , those with relatively low incomes and less formal education are more likely to say people pretend to be someone else in order to steal others ' information often . Roughly six-in-ten of those who have lower incomes say so , compared with about half of those from middle-income households ( 47 % ) and about four-in-ten of those with higher incomes ( 37 % ) .
Overall , the national news media devoted 37 % of its coverage to the presidential campaign , making it by far the most heavily covered news story of the week . News that U.S . Senator Ted Kennedy was diagnosed with a cancerous brain tumor also drew considerable coverage ( 8 % of all news coverage ) . Once again , the public was focused much more heavily on the rising price of gasoline than on the presidential campaign . Nearly two-thirds of the public ( 65 % ) say they followed news about gas prices very closely last week ; more than a third ( 35 % ) said the price of gas was the story they followed more closely than any other news item . The national news media devoted 6 % of its overall coverage to this story .
Democrats have long been more likely than Republicans to say Roe v. Wade should not be overturned , but the partisan gap has grown wider over time . Today , 84 % of Democrats and those who lean Democratic say the Supreme Court should not completely overturn the ruling , up 9 percentage points from 2013 and 18 points from 1992 . A narrow 53 % majority of Republicans now say the decision should not be completely overturned , little changed in recent years . While a 57 % majority of conservative Republicans and leaners think the Supreme Court should overturn the decision , just 27 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say the same . In fact , 71 % of moderate and liberal Republicans think the court should not completely overturn Roe v. Wade .
Other differences were not quite so large . About two-thirds of all Americans ( 64 % ) favor a ban on assault-style weapons and roughly the same share of police ( 67 % ) oppose such a restriction . More broadly , the surveys found that a larger share of police than the public believe it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns than to control gun ownership ( 74 % of police vs. 53 % of the public ) .
A majority of Americans get their science news from general outlets , though many question how often these outlets get the science facts right . More than half ( 54 % ) say they regularly get their science news from general news outlets , outpacing every other source type asked about , including a range of specialty science sources .
Doctors , nurses and other hospital staff around the country have raised concerns about a shortage of medical supplies during the COVID-19 pandemic . But the U.S. public is generally confident that hospitals and medical centers will be able to care for seriously ill people during the outbreak , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . About seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 71 % ) say they are very or somewhat confident that hospitals and medical centers in their area can handle the needs of seriously ill people during the outbreak . Around two-thirds ( 68 % ) say this about hospitals and medical centers around the country , according to the survey , conducted March 19 t0 24 . By comparison , a smaller share of Americans ( 54 % ) say they are very or somewhat confident that nursing homes in their area can handle the needs of seriously ill people during the outbreak . Nursing homes in more than half the states have reported coronavirus cases , according to federal data . ( You can explore all survey data in this analysis and the accompanying report by using our interactive data tool . )
And rather than pass stand-alone spending bills as it 's supposed to , Congress has increasingly used omnibus bills ( which bundle several appropriations measures into a single , giant law ) and full-year CRs to resolve annual spending disputes . The first such omnibus measure was passed in 1950 as a one-off experiment , and omnibus spending bills were used a couple of times in the mid-1980s . However , they 've become much more frequent in the past two decades : In each of the past seven fiscal years , in fact , all or nearly all of the regular appropriations bills were combined into such after-deadline package deals . Most federal spending , including spending on Social Security , Medicare , Medicaid , unemployment compensation and other entitlement programs , is mandated by the statutes governing those programs . That `` mandatory '' spending totaled about $ 2.6 trillion in fiscal 2017 , or 63 % of all federal outlays . `` Discretionary '' spending , which includes everything from the military and space programs to disaster relief and farm price supports , totaled about $ 1.2 trillion , or 30 % of total outlays . ( The remaining 7 % or so represents net interest on the federal debt . )
Views of the U.S. in Taiwan echo the views in six countries in the Asia-Pacific region included in a separate 2019 Pew Research Center survey . Around seven-in-ten or more hold favorable attitudes toward the U.S. in the Philippines , South Korea , Taiwan and Japan . Australians offer more tempered views , though half still hold the U.S. in a positive regard . More in India and Indonesia have favorable than unfavorable assessments , though sizable portions do not offer an opinion .
Support for keeping U.S. forces in Afghanistan has declined over the past year among Republicans , Democrats and independents . For the first time in a Pew Research Center survey , as many Republicans ( 48 % ) favor removing U.S. forces from Afghanistan as soon as possible as support keeping the troops there until the situation is stabilized ( 45 % ) . As recently as a month ago , a majority of Republicans ( 53 % ) said they favored staying in Afghanistan until the situation stabilized , while 41 % favored a troop withdrawal . Currently , 66 % of Democrats and 62 % of independents say the U.S. should remove troops as soon as possible , while about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) in each group favors keeping forces in Afghanistan .
Of those who have been harassed online , 55 % ( or 22 % of all internet users ) have exclusively experienced the `` less severe '' kinds of harassment while 45 % ( or 18 % of all internet users ) have fallen victim to any of the `` more severe '' kinds of harassment . Online harassment tends to occur to different groups in different environments with different personal and emotional repercussions .
Women are approaching a milestone in gender parity . 2019 will likely be the first year in which they are a majority of the college-educated labor force . As of the first quarter of 2019 , 29.5 million women in the labor force had at least a bachelor 's degree , effectively matching the number of college-educated men in the workforce ( 29.3 million ) , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .
The 2020 presidential election is more than two months away , but many social media users in the United States already are exhausted by how much political content they see on these platforms . Some 55 % of adult social media users say they feel `` worn out '' by how many political posts and discussions they see on social media , according to a Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted July 13 - 19 . This share has risen 18 percentage points since the Center first asked this question in the summer leading up to the 2016 presidential contest and 9 points just in the past year . At the same time , users are less ambivalent about seeing these types of posts today than in the past . Today , 29 % of social media users say they do n't feel strongly one way or another about encountering political discussions , down from about four-in-ten in 2016 and 2019 . Across these surveys , including the latest , relatively small shares – ranging from 15 % to 20 % – have said they like seeing lots of political posts on social media . The sense of exhaustion rather than excitement over seeing political content on social media holds true across political parties . But while there were no partisan differences on this question in 2016 , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents who use social media are more likely than users who are Democrats and Democratic leaners to say they are worn out by how many political posts they encounter on social media ( 63 % vs. 49 % ) . On the other hand , today Democratic social media users are twice as likely as their Republican counterparts to say they like seeing this kind of content on these platforms ( 20 % vs. 10 % ) , with this sentiment among Republican users falling 11 percentage points since 2016 .
Location-based services are similar in some respects to status updating services such as Twitter , in which users communicate by short messages sent online or by text . Status updating services have grown in popularity over the past few years , from 6 % of online adults saying they had used such a service in August 2008 to 24 % in September 2010 .
Overall , relatively few voters thought the country had made progress on most issues since 2008 . The economy was the only one of seven about which roughly as many voters said things had gotten better ( 38 % ) as worse ( 43 % ) over this period . Roughly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) thought it has stayed about the same .
Regarding general internet usage , rural adult Americans have consistently lagged their urban and suburban counterparts by a margin that varies between about 11 and 15 percentage points . However , according to our September and December 2005 combined data , 62 % of adult rural Americans were internet users compared with 70 % of non-rural Americans . This is the narrowest end-of-year difference in overall internet penetration between rural and non-rural Americans that we have recorded .
Russian President Vladimir Putin gets high marks on foreign affairs . Overall , nearly nine-in-ten Russians say they are confident in their president 's ability to do the right thing in world affairs , with 58 % expressing a lot of confidence . When it comes to bilateral relationships , Russians give Putin high ratings on his handling of relations with the U.S. ( 73 % approve ) , the EU ( 67 % ) and Ukraine ( 63 % ) . But these ratings are down substantially from 2015 , when 85 % approved of Putin 's handling of the U.S. , 82 % approved of EU relations and 83 % approved of Ukrainian relations . Putin gets his highest marks on managing relations with China ( 78 % approval ) , a country with which Russian relations have become markedly friendlier in recent years . However , even that figure is down 12 percentage points compared with 2015 .
Immigrants in general , but especially the unauthorized are considerably more likely than natives to have very low levels of education . For example , less than 2 % of natives have less than a 9th grade education , but 15 % of legal immigrants and 32 % of unauthorized migrants have this little education . ( Note that education in Mexico is currently compulsory only through the 8th grade , so finding this many with this little education is not surprising . Further , the level of compulsory school attendance was recently raised from 6th grade . )
For instance , 79 % of Americans say that restrictions on power plant emissions can make a difference in reducing the effects of global climate change . Three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 76 % ) say corporate tax incentives to encourage carbon emission reductions among businesses can make a difference , and roughly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say the same about tougher fuel efficiency standards for cars and trucks . Americans are somewhat less optimistic about tax incentives to encourage more people to drive hybrid and electric cars . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) think this would make a difference in reducing the effects of global climate change .
A substantial share of men in the U.S. ( 45 % ) say men face a lot or some pressure to join in when other men talk about women in a sexual way . Four-in-ten men perceive similar societal pressure on men to have many sexual partners . In both cases , Millennial men are more likely than older men to say such pressures exist . About six-in-ten Millennial men ( 61 % ) , for example , say there is societal pressure on men to have many sexual partners , a view shared by only about a third or fewer men in older generations .
Men have accounted for a majority of newly enrolled foreign students at U.S. colleges and universities since 2004 .
People 's sense that there generally is a conflict between religion and science seems to have less to do with their own religious beliefs than it does with their perceptions of other people 's beliefs . Less than one-third of Americans polled in the new survey ( 30 % ) say their personal religious beliefs conflict with science , while fully two-thirds ( 68 % ) say there is no conflict between their own beliefs and science .
The age divide in voting , which barely existed in the early 2000s , also is large . Majorities of voters ages 18 to 29 ( 67 % ) and 30 to 44 ( 58 % ) favored the Democratic candidate . Voters ages 45 and older were divided ( 50 % Republican , 49 % Democrat ) .
But while a large number of Twitter users weighed in at least some of the time on this contentious issue by linking to news about it , the majority of content was driven by a smaller segment that tweeted about immigration news much more frequently , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of tweets between Jan. 20 and Feb. 20 , 2017 . ( Data are not available for recent events , but many of the actions and views that characterized the debate during the first month of Trump 's presidency are part of the current debate as well . ) When it came to sharing links about immigration , most users included at least one link to a news organization site , as opposed to a commentary , advocacy or other kind of site , the Center 's analysis finds . About eight-in-ten ( 83 % ) of the more than 2 million users who tweeted about immigration with a link during this time period shared at least one tweet that had a link to a news organization site .
After the health care debate and the economy , the public continued to closely follow news about the war in Afghanistan . More than a third ( 35 % ) say they followed news about Afghanistan very closely ; 12 % say this was the news they followed most closely . According to PEJ , the media allocated 5 % of newshole to Afghanistan , a significant drop from one week earlier as Obama announced his new war strategy . That week , the war took up 27 % of the newshole . Two-in-ten say they very closely followed the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Obama in Oslo , while 9 % say this was the story they followed most closely . Obama 's trip and speech at the award ceremony received 4 % of the coverage as measured by PEJ . Democrats were much more likely than Republicans or independents to have followed this story closely . About three-in-ten Democrats ( 31 % ) say they followed this story very closely , compared with 9 % of Republicans and 16 % of independents . A smaller percentage ( 17 % ) says they followed the climate change conference in Copenhagen very closely , while 6 % say this was the story they followed most closely . Stories about global climate change – including the conference , the controversy over hacked e-mails between climate scientists and actions by the Environmental Protection Agency on greenhouse gases – made up 10 % of the newshole . About 3 % of that was specifically tied to the international summit in Copenhagen . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they very closely followed reports about the arrests in Pakistan of five Muslim American men with suspected ties to terrorists ; 5 % say this was their most closely followed story of the week . The story line made up 3 % of news coverage .
Trump has appointed more federal appeals court judges to date than any recent president at the same point in their presidency . The overall number of federal judges Trump has appointed to date ( 194 ) is similar to the number appointed by George W. Bush at the same juncture in his presidency ( 197 ) . Trump , however , stands out for his unusually large number of appeals court judges — the powerful regional jurists who have the final word on most appeals that do not end up in the Supreme Court and who frequently end up becoming Supreme Court justices themselves . Eight of the nine current high court justices , including both of Trump 's appointees , previously served as appeals court judges . Trump has appointed 53 appeals court judges to date , far higher than the number appointed by nearly every other recent president at the same point in their tenure . The exception is Carter , who successfully appointed 54 appeals court judges by July 7 of his fourth ( and final ) year in office .
Across the Atlantic , Americans are slowly but consistently regaining confidence in their economy . A modest 44 % of Americans currently think the U.S. economic situation is good , a full 27 percentage points higher than in 2009 . Still , economic confidence remains lower than the pre-crisis 50 % registered in 2007 .
Nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) of those who say gun rights should be the priority have contributed money to an organization that takes a position on gun policy , compared with just 5 % of those who prioritize gun control . People who favor gun rights are also about twice as likely as gun control supporters to have contacted a public official about gun policy ( 15 % vs. 8 % ) . By contrast , comparable percentages of gun rights supporters ( 19 % ) and those who prioritize gun control ( 15 % ) say they have expressed their opinion about gun policy on social networks . And about one-in-ten in each group says they have signed a petition on gun policy ( 12 % of gun rights supporters , 10 % of gun control supporters ) . Read more
Overall , the public remains skeptical about the prospects of Cuba shifting in a democratic direction but more ( 43 % ) say they think the communist country will become more democratic over the next several years than did so in January ( 32 % ) . About half ( 49 % ) say they expect Cuba to stay about the same as it is now .
For many Americans , going online is an important way to connect with friends and family , shop , get news and search for information . Yet today , 10 % of U.S. adults do not use the internet , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of survey data . For instance , seniors are much more likely than younger adults to say they never go online . Although the share of non-internet users ages 65 and older has decreased by 7 percentage points since 2018 , 27 % still do not use the internet , compared with fewer than 10 % of adults under the age of 65 . Household income and education are also indicators of a person 's likelihood to be offline . Roughly three-in-ten adults with less than a high school education ( 29 % ) do not use the internet in 2019 , compared with 35 % in 2018 . But that share falls as the level of educational attainment increases . Adults from households earning less than $ 30,000 a year are far more likely than the most affluent adults to not use the internet ( 18 % vs. 2 % ) .
Moderate and liberal Republicans ' views on checks on presidential power have not shifted during this period . Currently , 27 % of moderates and liberals say presidents would be more effective if they were less concerned about the courts and Congress , while a 68 % majority say it would be too risky to give them more power .
And already wide generational divisions in attitudes about whether it is necessary to believe in God in order to be moral and have good values have grown wider in recent years : 62 % of Silents say belief in God is necessary for morality , but this view is less commonly held among younger generations – particularly Millennials . Just 29 % of Millennials say belief in God is a necessary condition for morality , down from 42 % in 2011 .
How did we get to that number ? In October , the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that women earned 81 cents to the dollar . The difference is not large , but what gives ?
Government restrictions on religion and social hostilities related to religion decreased somewhat between 2013 and 2014 , the second consecutive year of decline . The share of countries with governments imposing high or very high levels of restrictions on religion dropped from 28 % in 2013 to 24 % in 2014 . During the same period , the share of countries with high levels of social hostilities – those perpetrated by individuals or groups – also dropped , from 27 % to 23 % . ( For more on the index used to determine these measures , see the full report . )
While China 's global image is largely positive , the same is not true of its leader , President Xi Jinping . A global median of 53 % say they have little or no confidence in him to do the right thing in world affairs , compared with 28 % who do have confidence in Xi .
As the Iraq war has shaken the global outlook of American influentials , it has led to a revival of isolationist sentiment among the general public . Fully 42 % of Americans say the United States should `` mind its own business internationally and let other countries get along the best they can on their own . '' This is on par with the percentage expressing that view during the mid-1970s , following the Vietnam War , and in the 1990s after the Cold War ended .
About four-in-ten black Democrats want a Democratic president to push hard on policy , even if it makes it hard to get things done . Among Democrats , larger shares of black ( 41 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 42 % ) than whites ( 32 % ) want a Democratic candidate who , if elected , will push hard for Democratic policies , even if it makes it harder to get things done .
Nearly half ( 48 % ) of smartphone-dependent Americans have had to cancel or shut off their cell phone service for a period of time because the cost of maintaining that service was a financial hardship . In addition , 30 % of smartphone-dependent Americans say that they `` frequently '' reach the maximum amount of data that they are allowed to consume as part of their cell phone plan , and 51 % say that this happens to them at least occasionally . Each of these figures is substantially higher than those reported by smartphone owners with more access options at their disposal .
Public confidence in scientists to act in the public interest has increased in recent years . Overall , 35 % of Americans say they have a great deal of confidence in scientists , up 14 percentage points from 2016 . Americans have about the same level of confidence in scientists as they do in the military – and more than they do in some other groups and institutions , including the news media , business leaders and elected officials .
Despite Mexico 's large numbers , immigrants come to the U.S. from all over the world . India is the top country of birth among immigrants in New Jersey , even though only about one-in-ten of the state 's immigrants are from India . Canada is the top country of birth for immigrants in Maine ( 24 % ) , Montana ( 21 % ) , New Hampshire ( 15 % ) , Vermont ( 15 % ) and North Dakota ( 13 % ) . Filipinos account for a large share of immigrants in Hawaii ( 47 % ) and Alaska ( 27 % ) .
Puerto Rico 's population stabilized in 2019 after several years of decline . The island 's population stood at 3.2 million in 2019 , the same as in 2018 . Puerto Rico 's population had steadily declined for about a decade , with its sharpest drops occurring in 2017 and 2018 .
In the Center 's survey , there 's no clear consensus among the public as to whether sharing this information with medical researchers is acceptable or not . About four-in-ten Americans ( 41 % ) say it is acceptable for makers of fitness trackers to share users ' data with medical researchers seeking to better understand the link between exercise and heart disease , while a somewhat smaller share ( 35 % ) believes this is an unacceptable practice . Another 22 % are unsure if this is an acceptable practice or not . Some groups find the use of this data more acceptable than others . White adults ( 39 % ) are more likely than those who are black ( 31 % ) or Hispanic ( 26 % ) to see sharing this data as unacceptable . At the same time , 47 % of adults under the age of 50 believe that sharing this type of data with researchers is acceptable , compared with 35 % of those 50 and older .
Overall , 35 % of adult Millennials ( Americans born between 1981 and 1996 ) are religiously unaffiliated . Far more Millennials say they have no religious affiliation compared with those who identify as evangelical Protestants ( 21 % ) , Catholics ( 16 % ) or mainline Protestants ( 11 % ) . Although older generations also have grown somewhat more religiously unaffiliated in recent years , Millennials remain far more likely to identify as religious `` nones . '' The 35 % of Millennials who do not identify with a religion is double the share of unaffiliated Baby Boomers ( 17 % ) and more than three times the share of members of the Silent generation ( 11 % ) .
The COVID-19 economic downturn has made it harder for some Americans to pay their monthly bills . Black ( 48 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 44 % ) were more likely than white adults ( 26 % ) to say they `` can not pay some bills or can only make partial payments on some of them this month , '' according to the April survey . For Hispanics , this was a considerably greater share than the 28 % who said they have trouble paying their bills in a typical month .
Why public views on crime have grown more dire is unclear , though many blame it on the nature of news coverage , reality TV and political rhetoric . Whatever the cause , this trend is not without consequence . Today , those who say that crime is rising are the most opposed to gun control : Just 45 % want to see gun laws made more strict , compared with 53 % of those who see crime rates as unchanged or dropping . And when we analyze the numbers , this trend is especially pronounced among whites . Support for gun control has dropped most dramatically among whites who see crime on the rise – just 37 % of those who now say crime is increasing say they favor stricter gun control , compared with 78 % who said the same in 1990 .
This first use of a nuclear weapon by any nation has long divided Americans and Japanese . Americans have consistently approved of this attack and have said it was justified . The Japanese have not . But opinions are changing : Americans are less and less supportive of their use of atomic weapons , and the Japanese are more and more opposed . In 1945 , a Gallup poll immediately after the bombing found that 85 % of Americans approved of using the new atomic weapon on Japanese cities . In 1991 , according to a Detroit Free Press survey conducted in both Japan and the U.S. , 63 % of Americans said the atomic bomb attacks on Japan were a justified means of ending the war , while only 29 % thought the action was unjustified . At the same time , only 29 % of Japanese said the bombing was justified , while 64 % thought it was unwarranted .
The pattern of opinion on the question of whether White people benefit from societal advantages Black people do not have is largely parallel , with a larger share of voters now saying that White people benefit a great deal from advantages in society that Black people do n't have . While Biden 's supporters are substantially more likely to say that White people have advantages than Clinton supporters were in 2016 ( 59 % today , 40 % then ) , just 5 % of Trump supporters say this today – little different than the 4 % who said this in 2016 .
A much smaller share of U.S. teens work today compared with earlier decades . Teens spend 26 minutes a day , on average , doing paid work during the school year , compared with 49 minutes about a decade ago and 57 minutes in the mid-1990s , according to a recent Pew Research Center analysis of time use data from the BLS . Teens also are working less during the summer . As recently as two decades ago , roughly half of U.S. teens could expect to be working for at least part of their summer vacation . But the share of teens working summer jobs has dwindled since the early 1990s : After bottoming out in 2010 and 2011 at 29.6 % , the teen summer employment rate began rising again but was still only 34.6 % in summer 2017 . ( From 1940 through the late 1980s , the teen summer employment rate generally fluctuated between 46 % and 58 % . ) The decline of teens in summer jobs reflects an overall decline in youth employment in recent decades , a trend that 's also been observed in other advanced economies .
Despite differences in views about a range of biomedical and physical science topics , both the public and scientists give relatively high marks to the nation 's scientific achievements and give distinctly lower marks to K-12 education in science , technology , engineering and mathematics ( known as STEM ) . Just 16 % of AAAS scientists and 29 % of adults in the general public considers K-12 STEM education in the U.S. to be the best or above average compared with other industrialized countries . Both groups see U.S. scientific achievements and medical treatment in a more positive light , by comparison .
An overwhelming share of Americans ( 85 % ) see U.S. military bases in Germany as important for U.S. national security , but fewer Germans ( 52 % ) see these bases as important for their own national security . More than half of Americans ( 56 % ) see these bases as very important to U.S. national security , and only 13 % of Americans claim these bases are not important . Among Germans , 52 % say these American troops are vital for German national security , although only 15 % claim they are very important . And 45 % of Germans say the bases are not important , including 15 % who say they are not at all important .
Americans last week followed news about the struggling economy and the resignation of Rep. Anthony Weiner from Congress more closely than other top stories , while the early stages of the 2012 presidential election led news coverage for this first time this year . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy most closely , while 16 % followed developments in the Weiner scandal that closely , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted June 16 - 19 among 1,003 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say news about the 2012 presidential election was their top story . Coverage of the potential candidates , driven in large part by the Republican debate in New Hampshire , accounted for 15 % of coverage , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Coverage of the economy made up 12 % of the newshole , while Weiner 's resignation accounted for 9 % . One week earlier , the Weiner story , including his acknowledgment that he had sent sexually-suggestive photos and messages online to at least six women , was the top story with 17 % of coverage .
Large majorities of those who initially identified as Republicans and Democrats stayed with their parties from December 2015 through March 2017 . In both parties , comparable shares ( 13 % of Republicans , 15 % of Democrats ) moved from identifying as firm partisans to leaning . Thus some of the stability in leaned partisanship seen above reflects individuals who moved from being partisans to leaners ( and vice versa ) , maintaining a connection to their original party throughout . Just 8 % of those who initially identified as Republicans aligned with the Democrats in March ( 4 % identified as Democrats , 4 % leaned Democratic ) . Similarly , 7 % of those who identified as Democrats defected to the GOP ( 4 % identified as Republicans , 3 % leaned Republican ) . Among nonpartisans who leaned toward a party in December 2015 , roughly six-in-ten leaned toward the same party in March of this year . There was more movement during this period among leaners than partisans . For instance , 16 % of those who initially leaned Republican eventually called themselves Democrats ( either identified or leaned Democratic ) ; a comparable share of those who initially leaned Democratic became Republicans or Republican leaners ( 14 % ) .
Most voters ( 58 % ) say Clinton has liberal views on almost all or most issues . Just 28 % say Clinton has a mix of liberal and conservative positions and 10 % think Clinton has conservative issue positions . Perceptions of Trump 's ideology are more divided : 44 % say he has conservative views on almost all issues or most issues , while 40 % say he has a mix of conservative and liberal positions . Just 11 % say he takes all or mostly liberal positions .
Throughout the campaign , Democrats have consistently expressed more interest in news about the campaign than have either Republicans or independents . The gap has grown in recent weeks , as the Democratic race moved to a conclusion . Last week 38 % of Democrats followed news about the campaign very closely , compared with 25 % of Republicans and 24 % of independents .
The national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Nov. 29-Dec. 4 among 1,503 adults , finds that the public has negative assessments of the overall state of race relations in the U.S. A majority ( 56 % ) says race relations are generally bad , while 38 % say they are generally good . Since May 2016 , there has been an increase in the share of Americans who say race relations are getting worse – from 38 % then to 44 % today . Opinions about the overall state of race relations have grown more negative in recent years . Positive views reached a high shortly after Obama 's inauguration in 2009 , when 66 % said race relations were generally good . However , public views of race relations declined significantly in 2014 and 2015 , following a number of high-profile shootings of unarmed black men . In August 2014 , about as many said race relations were generally good ( 47 % ) as generally bad ( 44 % ) . And by May 2015 , views had grown even more negative : 61 % called race relations generally bad , compared with just 34 % who said they were generally good . A year later , in a major survey of the public 's attitudes about race and racial inequality , opinions about the state of race relations were divided ( 48 % generally bad , 44 % generally good ) . Today , a 56 % majority expresses a negative view of race relations , while 38 % say relations are generally good .
Just over half ( 51 % ) of the public now favors same-sex marriage , while 42 % are opposed .
In the summer , before Ginsburg 's death , seven-in-ten U.S. adults said they had a favorable view of the Supreme Court . That included three-quarters of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents and two-thirds of Democrats and Democratic leaners , according to an online survey using the Center 's American Trends Panel . The overall share of Americans with a favorable opinion of the court in August 2020 was little changed from a year earlier , when 69 % expressed a positive view . But the share of Republicans with a favorable opinion declined 10 percentage points in that span ( from 85 % to 75 % ) , and the share of Democrats with a positive view rose 10 points ( from 57 % to 67 % ) .
Views of Russia are also down across generations , but younger Americans remain somewhat more positive . Over the last decade or so , the share of Americans who hold a favorable view of Russia has been halved , dropping from 44 % in 2007 to 22 % today . The decline in support for Russia is sharpest among Boomers : While 45 % initially saw Russia favorably more than 10 years ago , only 14 % say the same today . Millennial attitudes , too , have turned more negative – falling from 52 % favorable in 2007 to 25 % in 2020 – but they remain relatively more favorable toward Russia than most older cohorts ( though similar to the 23 % of Gen Xers who have a favorable opinion of the country ) .
However , that assumption would be wrong . Both in terms of raw numbers and as a share of all employed people , fewer Americans are working more than one job than in the mid-1990s . Working two jobs or more has become less common , not more , since the end of the Great Recession . According to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics , as of July nearly 6.8 million Americans worked more than one job , or 4.6 % of all employed people . ( The August jobs report , which will contain new data on the number of people who work multiple jobs , is scheduled to be released Friday . ) Since the recession 's official end in June 2009 , the average monthly number of this group has been just under 7 million — about half a million below the average during the 2001 - 07 expansion , and nearly 800,000 below the 1994 - 99 average .
Just 32 % of the public now says that the U.S. should keep troops in Afghanistan until the situation there has stabilized , while 60 % favor removing the troops as soon as possible . In May 2011 , the public was evenly divided over removing U.S. troops from Afghanistan ( 48 % remove troops vs. 47 % keep troops there ) .
Despite the declining share in some countries that view the Islamic Republic as a threat , some of its neighbors thought its influence was on the rise . When asked in 2017 , a majority of Lebanese and Jordanians and more than half of Israelis said they believed Iran played a more important role in the Middle East at that time than it did 10 years prior . Sizable shares in Tunisia and Turkey agreed ; in both countries people were more likely to say that Iran 's stature in the region had grown than they were to say it stayed the same or declined .
Overall , 45 % say that Muslim Americans face a lot of discrimination , and 28 % say they are subject to some discrimination . Only about one-in-five say that Muslim Americans face only a little ( 13 % ) or no discrimination ( 6 % ) . About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say that gays and lesbians face a lot of discrimination . Smaller percentages say that Hispanic Americans ( 25 % ) , African Americans ( 22 % ) and women ( 15 % ) face a lot of discrimination .
Italians are also the least optimistic among the eight Western countries surveyed . Only 37 % of Italians think they will be at a higher spot on the ladder of life in five years . In contrast , in the United States — a country famous for its optimism — 55 % say they will be better off .
Teens who have a close friend were asked to name their most common method of getting in touch with their closest friend . Texting is the number one way all teens get in touch with their closest friends . Some 58 % of teens with smartphones cite texting as the main way they communicate with their closest friend online or by phone , compared with 25 % of teens without smartphone access . On the other hand , non-smartphone-using teens are more likely than those with smartphones to keep in touch with their closest friend via social media . Some 29 % of teens without smartphone access cited social media as their most common online or phone method of communicating with a best friend , compared with 17 % for smartphone users who did so .
Few in the region express confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping . Most observers expect Xi to begin his second of two five-year terms at the 19th National Congress . Among China 's neighbors , however , there is limited confidence in him to do the right thing regarding world affairs . A median of 34 % across the Asia-Pacific region say they have a lot or some confidence in him , ranging from a high of 53 % in the Philippines to a low of 11 % in Japan – a country where not even 1 % say they have a lot of confidence in him . In India , Japan , Vietnam and the Philippines , Xi ranks behind U.S. President Donald Trump . Notably , however , in two U.S. treaty-allies in the region , Australia and South Korea , people have more confidence in Xi than in Trump .
Roughly three-quarters of U.S. Catholics ( 77 % ) say the church should allow birth control , while solid majorities also say the Vatican should permit priests to get married ( 72 % ) and female priests ( 68 % ) . Half ( 50 % ) say the church should recognize same-sex marriages .
In addition to expressing positive views of their country , Indians believe it plays a growing role on the world stage . Roughly half are supportive of India 's burgeoning international economic engagement and are committed to their allies . At the same time , the public is wary of China and longtime rival Pakistan . They favor a militaristic stance against terrorism and support increased defense spending . But only about a quarter want their country to help other nations deal with their problems .
Syrians not only filed the most applications , they also had the highest share of approved applications of any asylum-seeker origin group . Among nationalities with the most asylum applications in 2015 and 2016 , estimates show the share of Syrians ( 80 % ) permitted to stay in the European Union , Norway and Switzerland was far higher than the share among Eritreans ( 68 % ) , Somalians ( 38 % ) , Iraqis ( 36 % ) , Sudanese ( 36 % ) and Afghans ( 22 % ) .
On social media , too , most people are gravitating toward social activities over political , religious or commercial ones . Among the minority of sub-Saharan Africans who use social media ( ranging from 43 % in South Africa to 20 % in Tanzania ) , more say they share their views on entertainment-related topics like music , movies and sports than say they post about politics , religion or products they enjoy . Sub-Saharan Africans are more likely to use their mobile devices – whether smartphones or not – for social and entertainment purposes than for information-seeking or career- and commerce-related activities . Across the region , a majority of phone owners are using their devices to send text messages and to take pictures or video . Around four-in-ten phone owners also use their mobile phones to access social networking sites . Another very popular phone-based activity is making or receiving payments . Around six-in-ten mobile phone owners have used their devices for this type of online banking over the past year , ranging from a high of 83 % in Kenya ( where M-Pesa is a dominant force ) to a low of 34 % in Nigeria . Outside of banking , though , relatively few people use their phones for other career and commerce activities , like looking for or applying for jobs . Information-seeking activities are also less popular : Only around a third of mobile phone owners say they have used their mobile device over the past year to get news and information about politics , health or prices and products .
Overall , 83 % of Republicans and Republican leaners think the federal government 's aid package will help small businesses either a great deal ( 32 % ) or a fair amount ( 51 % ) . A smaller majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 60 % ) think small businesses will get at least a fair amount of help from the aid . Larger majorities of Republicans than Democrats also think state and local governments ( 77 % vs. 59 % ) and unemployed people ( 80 % vs. 57 % ) will get at least a fair amount of help from the federal response to the coronavirus outbreak .
When asked whether a series of top problems will get better , get worse or stay the same in the next five years , the Chinese public offers mixed views . More than six-in-ten ( 63 % ) believe corruption problems will improve in the next five years . A plurality ( 43 % ) is also optimistic that progress will be made in food safety . However , the public is split on water pollution : 37 % believe it will get better over the next five years , while 34 % believe it will get worse . Similar divides are found on air pollution ( 36 % better , 34 % worse ) and the gap between the rich and poor ( 35 % better , 31 % worse ) .
There has been virtually no change among Americans . Just as in 2019 , a little over four-in-ten Americans say it is more important to have a close relationship with Germany ( 43 % ) , while nearly the same share ( 44 % ) prioritize relations with China .
Across the board , there is a universal lack of confidence among adults in the security of everyday communications channels—particularly when it comes to the use of online tools . Across six different methods of mediated communication , there is not one mode through which a majority of the American public feels `` very secure '' when sharing private information with another trusted person or organization :
Trump and Biden supporters have deep disagreements over several other aspects of the election and voting process – including whether it will be clear which candidate won even after all the votes are counted . About three-quarters of registered voters who support Biden ( 76 % ) are confident that the country will know the winner of the presidential election after all the votes are counted , including 30 % who are very confident .
The largest individual changes have occurred on questions relating to sexuality . As many Pew surveys over the past several years have shown , the public is increasingly accepting of homosexuality . In the current study , only 28 % of respondents agreed that school boards should have the right to fire teachers who are known to be homosexual ; 66 % disagreed . In 1987 when this question was first asked , a majority of 51 % agreed with the statement .
Unauthorized immigrants accounted for one-in-twenty people in the labor force , or 8.1 million people in 2012 , but the share is markedly higher in some states , especially those with high shares of unauthorized immigrants in the population ( like Nevada , California and Texas ) .
Among Russian adults , a survey we conducted last year showed that about half ( 53 % ) think Muslim extremist groups pose a major threat to their country . Russian Muslims – especially those living in the North Caucasus – share their non-Muslim compatriots ' concerns about extremism . In a 2011 - 2012 Pew Research survey , nearly half of Russian Muslims said they were either very concerned ( 20 % ) or somewhat concerned ( 27 % ) about religious extremism in their country , including more than half of Muslims in the North Caucasus ( 33 % very concerned , 25 % somewhat concerned ) . The same survey revealed that the vast majority of Russia 's Muslims ( 86 % ) reject the use of violence against civilians in defense of Islam .
New data show that median household income has stagnated for the longest period since the government began collecting such data in 1967 . In 2012 the median household income was $ 51,017 , still below the pre-recession 2007 level ( $ 55,627 ) and also below the all-time peak level reached in 1999 ( $ 56,080 ) . So the typical American household had 9 % less income in 2012 than it did 13 years earlier ( all figures adjusted for inflation ) . The 2012 level is just above where it had stood as of 1995 ( $ 50,978 ) . Households headed by those 65 and older are faring relatively better since the recession . The income patterns of younger and older households have moved in opposite directions in recent years . The median incomes of households headed by those 65 and older have risen during the recession and recovery , continuing their steady rise over more than four decades . By contrast , the median incomes of younger and middle-aged households have declined since the onset of the recession . In 2012 , the median household income among those led by someone aged 65 and older was $ 33,848 , statistically unchanged from $ 33,810 in 2011 . Thus , in 2012 the median household income of seniors was 66 % of the national median household income . Back in 1967 , the median income of these older households was only 39 % of the national median .
A median of 47 % across the 38 countries surveyed have a favorable opinion of China , while 37 % express an unfavorable view . Majorities or pluralities in 24 countries give China a positive rating .
Of the three major presidential candidates , Mexicans are most positive about the PRI 's Enrique Peña Nieto . A 56 % -majority has a favorable opinion of Peña Nieto , compared with 38 % who see him unfavorably . The PAN 's Josefina Vazquez Mota and the PRD 's Andrés Manuel López Obrador are less popular , with only about a third expressing a favorable view of either candidate ( 36 % and 34 % , respectively ) . More than half express unfavorable views of López Obrador ( 60 % ) and Vazquez Mota ( 54 % ) .
Among those who say they have not participated , 70 % say they or someone else in their household definitely or probably will respond to the census , and 26 % say they definitely or probably will not . About seven-in-ten adults say they think the 2020 census will be very successful ( 8 % ) or somewhat successful ( 60 % ) in accurately counting the number of people living in the U.S. , according to the Center 's new survey . An additional 31 % say the census will be not too successful ( 26 % ) or not at all successful ( 5 % ) in doing so . In an earlier Pew Research Center survey , conducted in late February and early March , 75 % said the census would be somewhat or very successful , and 24 % said it would not be .
Perceptions of Japan in the Asia/Pacific region are mixed . About half or more of the publics in five of seven Asia/Pacific nations surveyed have a favorable view of Japan , most strongly so . Eight-in-ten Malaysians and nearly as many Indonesians ( 79 % ) , Australians ( 78 % ) and Filipinos ( 78 % ) see Japan in a positive light . However , anti-Japan sentiment is quite strong in China , where 90 % of the public has an unfavorable opinion of Japan , and in South Korea ( 77 % unfavorable ) .
Newsroom employees are also more likely than workers overall to be male . About six-in-ten newsroom employees ( 61 % ) are men , compared with 53 % of all workers . When combining race , ethnicity and sex , almost half ( 47 % ) of newsroom employees are non-Hispanic white men , compared with about a third ( 34 % ) of workers overall .
In 2016 , Millennials for the first time surpassed all other generations in number of household heads who were single mothers . Last year , 8.6 million households were headed by a single mother who lived with a child younger than 18 . About 4 million of these mothers were Millennials , slightly outnumbering the 3.9 million Gen Xers heading single-mother households . Baby Boomers who were single mothers with young children and heading a household numbered only 0.6 million . The incidence of single parenthood has increased markedly since 1980 . That year , 19 % of children lived in a single-parent family ; by 2014 , 34 % did .
The answer , as one might expect , is complicated . Solar and wind power use has grown at a rapid rate over the past decade or so , but as of 2018 those sources accounted for less than 4 % of all the energy used in the U.S. ( That 's the most recent full year for which data is available . ) As far back as we have data , most of the energy used in the U.S. has come from coal , oil and natural gas . In 2018 , those `` fossil fuels '' fed about 80 % of the nation 's energy demand , down slightly from 84 % a decade earlier . Although coal use has declined in recent years , natural gas use has soared , while oil 's share of the nation 's energy tab has fluctuated between 35 % and 40 % . The total amount of energy used in the U.S. – everything from lighting and heating homes to cooking meals , fueling factories , driving cars and powering smartphones – hit 101.2 quadrillion Btu in 2018 , the highest level since data collection began in 1949 , according to the federal Energy Information Administration ( EIA ) .
Fewer Egyptians now say that democracy is preferable to any other form of government than in surveys following the Arab Spring , and for the first time , more say that stability is a priority over democracy . While 45 % of the population says that honest elections with the choice of at least two political parties are very important for Egypt 's future , that number is down 11 percentage points from 2013 .
And nearly half ( 47 % ) of teen girls say they usually wait for someone to ask them out first , compared with only 6 % of boys . Girls are also much less inclined than boys to ask someone out , whether in person ( 35 % girls vs. 69 % boys ) or via text message ( 20 % vs. 27 % ) .
There are more than 250 million migrants worldwide , according to the latest data from the United Nations on the number of people living outside their birth countries in 2017 ( see this updated interactive graphic ) . Sub-Saharan African nations account for eight of the 10 fastest growing international migrant populations since 2010 . The number of migrants from each of these sub-Saharan countries grew by 50 % or more between 2010 and 2017 , significantly more than the 17 % worldwide average over the same period . At least a million sub-Saharan Africans have moved to Europe since 2010 . ( Read this new Pew Research Center report for more information about the educational backgrounds of sub-Saharan African immigrants in Europe and the U.S . )
Most Americans say the U.S. response to the coronavirus outbreak has been less effective than that of other wealthy nations . Around six-in-ten adults ( 62 % ) hold that view , while a quarter say America 's response has been about as effective and 13 % say it has been more effective , according to a survey conducted July 27 to Aug. 2 . Attitudes on this question are deeply divided along partisan lines , as they are on many questions related to the coronavirus . Almost nine-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 87 % ) say the U.S. response has been less effective than that of other wealthy countries , while Republicans and GOP leaners are much more divided : Around a third ( 34 % ) say it has been less effective , 42 % say it has been about as effective and 22 % say it has been more effective .
Like his father 's experience in his first term in office , George W. Bush 's ratings were driven largely by the public 's response to national security concerns . In the end , however , a spike in unemployment contributed to Bush 's leaving office with one of the lowest approval scores of the modern era . When Bush was inaugurated in January 2001 , unemployment stood at 4.2 % . The rate rose markedly following the Sept. 11 attacks , peaking at 6.3 % in June 2003 , not beginning a gradual decline until late that year . Nonetheless , Bush 's ratings remained high throughout as the public rallied behind the president , first in response to the attacks , and subsequently during the early stages of the Iraq war .
Americans ' views about aid to those in need have shifted since September , with more Americans now saying the government should do more to help the needy , even if it means going deeper into debt . Today , 58 % of Americans say this , up from 49 % last fall . Currently , four-in-ten Americans say the government today ca n't afford to do much more to help the needy , down from 48 % in September .
Meanwhile , the Russian government , long an ally of the Assad regime and a vocal opponent of outside intervention in the Syrian civil war , can claim little backing for its policy from its own people . Just 27 % of Russians approve of Moscow 's support of the Syrian government . Most Russians ( 52 % ) have no opinion on the issue .
Since the coronavirus outbreak was declared a pandemic in March , the U.S. unemployment rate has skyrocketed , and the International Monetary Fund predicts the U.S. gross domestic product will shrink in 2020 , while the Chinese economy will achieve positive growth . The American public 's economic confidence has also declined . While 52 % of Americans still see their country as the world 's leading economic power , this is down from 59 % in March , an unprecedented high in Pew Research Center 's surveys on this question .
A 2013 Pew Research survey showed that about half of Russian adults ( 53 % ) think Islamic extremist groups pose a major threat to their country . More Russians express concern about Islamic extremism than any other topic tested , including international financial instability and climate change . Among Muslims in the North Caucasus region , more than half say they are either very concerned ( 32 % ) or somewhat concerned ( 25 % ) about religious extremism in Russia .
When it comes to getting a good education , majorities in all but one country surveyed – ranging from 64 % in Brazil to 91 % in Greece – say men and women in their country have about the same opportunities . About half say the same in Turkey . Tunisia is the only country surveyed where a significantly larger share says women have more opportunities than men to get a good education than say men have more opportunities than women . About a quarter of Tunisians ( 24 % ) see women as having more opportunities in this area , compared with 6 % who say men do ; 70 % believe men and women have about the same opportunities to get a good education .
Older Americans are strong supporters of requiring childhood vaccinations – 79 % say they hold that view , compared with 59 % of those under 30 . One possible reason that older groups might be more supportive of mandatory vaccinations is that many among them remember when diseases like measles were common . Prior to the first licensed measles vaccine in 1963 , hundreds of thousands of measles cases were reported annually in the U.S . In 1958 alone , there were more than 750,000 cases . A decade later , in 1968 , that number fell to about 22,000 , according to an analysis of data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Today , measles cases are extremely rare , but the CDC reported a spike in 2014 , with more than 600 measles cases , the first such jump in more than a decade . The CDC attributed the increase to an outbreak among unvaccinated Ohio Amish communities and cases related to an outbreak in the Philippines .
The U.S. Asian population grew 72 % between 2000 and 2015 ( from 11.9 million to 20.4 million ) , the fastest growth rate of any major racial or ethnic group . By comparison , the population of the second-fastest growing group , Hispanics , increased 60 % during the same period . Population growth varied across the 19 Asian origin groups in this analysis . Roughly half of the 19 groups more than doubled in size between 2000 and 2015 , with Bhutanese- , Nepalese– and Burmese-origin populations showing the fastest growth over the period . Meanwhile , Laotians and Japanese had among the slowest growth rates among U.S. Asians in the past 15 years .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center and USA TODAY , conducted August 14 - 17 among 1,000 adults finds wide partisan divides in views of the Iraq situation . The public is split over whether the U.S. has a responsibility to act in response to the violence in Iraq : 44 % say that it does compared with 41 % who say it does not . A month ago , more people thought the U.S. did not have a responsibility to address the violence in Iraq ( 55 % ) than said it did ( 39 % ) .
Majorities of Americans continue to say the federal government is doing too little to protect key aspects of the environment . About two-thirds of Americans say the federal government is doing too little to protect water quality of rivers , lakes and streams ( 67 % ) , protect air quality ( 65 % ) and reduce the effects of climate change ( 65 % ) . About six-in-ten think the federal government is doing too little to protect animals and their habitats ( 62 % ) , and a slightly smaller majority say the federal government is doing too little to protect open lands in national parks ( 54 % ) .
The shift in the distribution of Hispanic construction workers across regions is consistent with regional trends in the housing market . As shown in Figure 1 , trends in housing starts have differed across regions in the past three years . The Northeast and the South witnessed stronger growth in 2004 and 2005 in comparison with the Midwest and the West . Housing activity diminished in all regions starting in 2006 , but the level of activity remained strong in the Northeast and South . In particular , housing activity in the Northeast and the South was at about the same level near the end of 2006 as it was at the beginning of 2004 . However , housing starts in the Midwest and the West were well below the levels seen in early 2004 . Consequently , it is possible that at least some of the movement of Latino workers across regions was caused by variations in the housing market .
A party 's criticism of the European Union does not , however , necessarily translate into disfavor toward Brussels by the party 's adherents . In Italy , 58 % of those who identify with the Euroskeptic Five Star Movement have a positive view of the EU . In Poland , where the ruling Law and Justice ( PiS ) party is in a feud with the EU on a range of issues , two-thirds ( 67 % ) of PiS partisans still have a favorable opinion of the Brussels institution . Much of the disaffection with the EU among Europeans can be attributed to Brussels ' handling of the refugee issue . In every country surveyed , overwhelming majorities disapprove of how Brussels has dealt with the problem . This includes 94 % of Greeks , 88 % of Swedes and 77 % of Italians . The strongest approval of EU management of the refugee crisis is in the Netherlands , but that backing is a tepid 31 % .
There is a wide ideological gap regarding whether the U.S. succeeded in Iraq among Democrats . Only 18 % of liberal Democrats say the U.S. mostly succeeded in achieving its goals , compared with 39 % of conservative and moderate Democrats . There is little difference between conservative Republicans ( 50 % ) and moderate and liberal Republicans ( 43 % ) .
Shares of Orthodox Christians have risen sharply across the region , while shares of Catholics have declined . The percentage of Russians who identify as Orthodox Christians has risen substantially since the end of the USSR , from 37 % in 1991 to 71 % in the new survey . Consequently , the share of Russians who describe their religious identity as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' has fallen . And the trend is not limited to Russia . Similar patterns are evident in Ukraine and Bulgaria . At the same time , historically Catholic countries in Central and Eastern Europe have undergone a shift in the opposite direction : The Catholic share of the population in Poland , Hungary and the Czech Republic has declined at least modestly since 1991 .
About four-in-five of the nation 's estimated 11.1 million unauthorized immigrants are of Hispanic origin ( Passel and Cohn , 2010 ) . A new national survey by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center , finds that Latinos are divided over what to do with these immigrants . A small majority ( 53 % ) says they should pay a fine but not be deported . A small minority ( 13 % ) says they should be deported , and a larger minority ( 28 % ) says they should not be punished .
Families today are more blended and differently constructed . Nearly half ( 44 % ) of young people ages 18 to 29 have a step sibling . About half as many ( 23 % ) of those ages 50 to 64—and just 16 % of those 65 or older—have a step sibling . More babies are born to unmarried mothers than ever before . Unmarried women accounted for 41 % of births in 2011 , up from just 5 % in 1960 . In 2011 , 72 % of births to black women were to unmarried mothers , compared with 53 % of births to Hispanic women and 29 % of births to white women . ( The sample size was too small to analyze results among Asians . ) But just 9 % of new mothers with a bachelor 's degree , regardless of race , were unmarried when they gave birth .
While there are legal protections for religious groups and minorities , Indians still generally experience `` high '' levels of government restrictions on religion , according to an annual Pew Research Center study . There are legal restrictions on religious conversions in at least six states that have at times been used to arrest and intimidate Muslims and Christians who proselytize , according to the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom . Additionally , Buddhists , Jains and Sikhs are legally considered Hindus and are unable to access social services or employment and educational preferences available to other religious minority groups . Meanwhile , Christians and Muslims who identify as low-caste Dalits – some of whom are descendants of Hindu Dalits who converted to escape caste discrimination – are restricted from accessing educational and employment benefits traditionally reserved for Hindu Dalits . Despite these restrictions , India 's Supreme Court has upheld protections for minorities in some religious freedom cases .
A minority of Americans fully accept the scientific explanation for the origins of human life . According to a 2013 Pew Research Center survey , 60 % of Americans say humans have evolved over time , but only about half of that group ( 32 % of U.S. adults overall ) believes that humans and other living things evolved solely due to natural processes , the explanation accepted by the vast majority of scientists . About a quarter of U.S. adults ( 24 % ) say that humans and other life evolved , but that this evolution was guided by a supreme being . The same survey found that a third of Americans ( 33 % ) reject evolution entirely , saying humans and other living things have existed in their present form since the beginning of time .
More say China is playing a larger role in the world compared with 10 years ago than say the same about the U.S. Respondents were read a list of seven major countries and were asked whether each is playing a more important , less important or as important role in the world compared with 10 years ago . Among the seven countries tested , China stands out : A median of 70 % across 25 countries say it plays a more important global role than it did a decade ago , a significantly higher share than for the other six countries . The U.S. falls in the middle : Roughly similar medians say it is as important as 10 years ago as say its importance has grown .
A different way of looking at the growing contentiousness of judicial appointments is by looking at the `` success rate '' of judicial nominations : that is , the share of each president 's nominees who end up being confirmed to the bench . While 99 % of Kennedy 's court picks were confirmed , the rate was substantially lower for many subsequent presidents , including 78 % for George H.W . Bush , 85 % for Clinton , 86 % for George W. Bush and 83 % for Obama .
But Europeans still think the EU does n't listen , is out of touch , intrusive and inefficient . People across Europe overwhelmingly think that their voice is not heard in Brussels , home to the EU . Majorities in all seven countries surveyed think their voice does not count in the EU . Italians ( 81 % ) and Greeks ( 80 % ) are particularly disheartened and 71 % of Germans share this sense of powerlessness . A median of 65 % say the EU does not understand their needs , a median of 63 % see the EU as intrusive , and a median of 57 % hold the view that the EU is inefficient .
As a massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico spread toward the Louisiana coastline last week , the public focused on the unfolding story of a potential environmental disaster . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely last week , much greater than the 21 % that say they most closely followed news about Arizona 's controversial new law targeting illegal immigrants . When asked what story they were talking about with friends , 26 % mention the Gulf Coast oil spill , while 12 % offer the debate over the new Arizona immigration law , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted April 30-May 3 among 1,011 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . For its part , the media devoted the bulk of coverage last week to these stories and the economy . The oil spill and the immigration debate each made up 16 % of the newshole analyzed by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . Meanwhile , economic news totaled 24 % of coverage , with the largest shares devoted to coverage of Goldman Sachs and allegations of fraud against the company ( 9 % ) , the debate over strengthening Wall Street regulation ( 6 % ) and the economic crisis in Greece ( 3 % of newshole ) . Other economic news made up another 6 % of coverage .
At their peak , each of these stories dominated press coverage – accounting for more than 40 % of the newshole in a single week . And at these moments , public interest was commensurately high . Fully 66 % of Americans said they were following the debate over health care more closely than any other news the week of March 22 - 28 , and 63 % were focused on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico the week of June 14 - 20 . Immediately following the earthquake in Haiti , 57 % of Americans followed news about the aftermath more closely than any other story , and in the week following the 2010 midterms , 43 % of Americans said that was their top news interest .
Fully 84 % of AAAS scientists read journal articles outside of their primary fields or scientific discipline . In addition , 79 % say they attend professional meetings , workshops and lectures .
An estimated 210,000 Hispanics of Panamanian origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Panamanians in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Panamanian origin ; this includes immigrants from Panama and those who trace their family ancestry to Panama . Panamanians are the 15th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for less than 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Panamanian-origin population has increased 108 % , growing from 101,000 to 210,000 over the period . At the same time , the Panamanian foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 39 % , from 61,000 in 2000 to 85,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
For the first time since last spring , Barack Obama 's steadily declining job rating has shown a modest improvement . And while his signature legislative accomplishment – the 2010 health care law – remains unpopular , Obama engenders much more public confidence on health care policy than do Republican leaders in Congress . Yet , Obama 's job rating has reversed a six-month slide . Currently , 45 % approve of the way he is handling his job as president while 49 % disapprove . In early November , amid the widely criticized rollout of health care exchanges and the Healthcare.gov website , 41 % approved of his job performance and 53 % disapproved . His job rating had been as high as 51 % in May and 55 % in December 2012 , shortly after he won reelection .
When asked about eight specific issues affecting the U.S.-China relationship , majorities of Americans rank all eight as at least a somewhat serious problem , with roughly six-in-ten citing the large amount of U.S. debt held by China and cyberattacks as very serious problems .
Americans followed news about the verdict in the Casey Anthony murder trial more closely than other top stories by a wide margin last week , but they also kept a watch on news about the nation 's struggling economy and the talks in Washington over raising the federal debt limit . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say the Florida jury 's controversial verdict , which found Anthony not guilty of murdering her toddler daughter , was their top story of the week , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted July 7 - 10 among 1,007 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Another 17 % say they followed reports about the economy most closely , while 14 % cite the deliberations over how to address the federal deficit and the national debt . News about the economy and the debt limit debate together made up about a quarter of the newshole , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . The debt debate accounted for 17 % of coverage and the economy more generally 8 % . The Anthony case made up 17 % of coverage and Anthony was easily the week 's top newsmaker . ( See Deficit Deliberations and a Surprise Verdict Top the News . )
Last July , just over 1.2 million teens worked in the retail sector , compared with more than 2 million in July 2000 – a 40.6 % drop . Retail accounted for 24 % of teen summer jobs in 2000 but only 21.7 % last year . ( Among all workers , by comparison , retail employment was about 1 % higher last July than it was in July 2000 . ) Instead , teens are more likely to be working at hotels , restaurants and similar businesses . Nearly a third ( 32.2 % ) of employed teens last summer worked in the `` accommodation and food services '' sector , compared with 22.6 % in July 2000 . ( The actual number in this sector fell a bit , from 1.9 million to 1.8 million , but they now make up a bigger share of a smaller total . ) Up modestly was the `` arts , entertainment and recreation '' sector , in which 8.8 % of employed teens worked last July , versus 7.5 % in 2000 . But manufacturing and construction both were down , to 4.2 % and 3.9 % , respectively , of teen summer employment . A combined 450,000 teens worked in manufacturing or construction last July , less than half the combined number in July 2000 .
Despite the nearly ubiquitous presence of social media in their lives , there is no clear consensus among teens about these platforms ' ultimate impact on people their age . A plurality of teens ( 45 % ) believe social media has a neither positive nor negative effect on people their age . Meanwhile , roughly three-in-ten teens ( 31 % ) say social media has had a mostly positive impact , while 24 % describe its effect as mostly negative . Given the opportunity to explain their views in their own words , teens who say social media has had a mostly positive effect tended to stress issues related to connectivity and connection with others . Some 40 % of these respondents said that social media has had a positive impact because it helps them keep in touch and interact with others . Many of these responses emphasize how social media has made it easier to communicate with family and friends and to connect with new people :
There are , however , some outliers . For example , South Africans — who have been plagued by crime in recent years — are more concerned about crime than would be expected , based solely on their level of social trust . Meanwhile , crime fears are even less common in Sweden and China than their high levels of trust would have predicted . The 2007 Pew survey found that in countries where people generally trust one another , there is also more confidence in the integrity of political leaders . As the figure below shows , the relationship between trust and corruption resembles the one between trust and crime . The percentage of people rating corrupt political leaders as a very big problem tends to be lower in countries that have high levels of trust such as Sweden , Canada , and Britain ( the correlation coefficient is -.54 ) . On the other hand , in nations such as Nigeria and Lebanon , trust is rare and concerns about political corruption are widespread .
Nonetheless , Americans are somewhat more likely to say their incomes are keeping pace with the cost of living than they were at the start of this year . And perceptions of local job availability continue to modestly improve . Currently , 42 % say their family 's incomes are staying about even with the cost of living , up from 37 % in January . Nearly half ( 49 % ) say their incomes are falling behind , down from 55 % . As was the case in January , very few people – just 7 % currently – say their incomes are actually going up faster than the cost of living .
This chart shows the high degree of geographic diversification that occurred for the unauthorized population during the 1990s . In 1990 , 45 % of the unauthorized population , or about 1.6 million persons , lived in California ; by 2004 , the share had dropped to 24 % . Note , however , that because of the sizeable growth in the unauthorized population , California still experienced substantial growth to about 2.4 million or growth of about 45 % . Texas ' share increased while New York 's dropped significantly . In Florida , New Jersey , and Illinois , the shares changed little , but the numbers increased significantly . ( Note that the number of unauthorized migrants in each of these six states was larger in 2004 than in 1990 , even when the share of the national total decreased . )
For most Americans , exposure to different content and ideas on social media has not caused them to change their opinions . But a small share of the public – 14 % – say they have changed their views about a political or social issue in the past year because of something they saw on social media , according to a Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted May 29-June 11 . Certain groups , particularly young men , are more likely than others to say they 've modified their views because of social media . Around three-in-ten men ages 18 to 29 ( 29 % ) say their views on a political or social issue changed in the past year due to social media . This is roughly twice the share saying this among all Americans and more than double the shares among men and women ages 30 and older ( 12 % and 11 % , respectively ) . There are also differences by race and ethnicity , according to the new survey . Around one-in-five black ( 19 % ) and Hispanic ( 22 % ) Americans say their views changed due to social media , compared with 11 % of whites .
Between its inception in January 2017 and its final day on Jan. 3 , the GOP-led 115th Congress enacted 442 public laws , the most since the 110th Congress ( 2007 - 09 ) . Of those laws , 69 % were substantive ( as judged by our deliberately generous criteria ) – not much different from the 71 % substantive share achieved by the 114th Congress , in which the Republican-controlled House and Senate faced off against Democratic President Barack Obama . ( The 114th Congress passed 329 laws in total . ) Nearly a third of the laws passed by the 115th Congress were ceremonial in nature ; it was the third Congress in a row in which the ceremonial share increased . Those ceremonial measures include 109 that renamed post offices , courthouses and the like – a fourth of the Congress ' total legislative output .
While there is variation within this universe of digital native news outlets , our analysis of 438 of them has found that many fit a different composite : The typical outlet is between four and six years old ; editorially , it is focused on coverage of local or even neighborhood-level news ; it is just as likely to operate as a nonprofit organization as for-profit model ; and it has a lean full-time editorial staff of three or fewer people .
Of the three states surveyed , the Democratic contest in Iowa is the closest . Overall , Hillary Clinton has a narrow five-point edge over Barack Obama ( 31 % vs. 26 % ) among likely Democratic voters . John Edwards runs third at 19 % , and Bill Richardson garners the support of 10 % of Iowa voters . No other candidate is supported by more than 2 % . The Iowa contest was similarly tight at a comparable point four years ago . Howard Dean led Richard Gephardt by a 29 % to 21 % margin in early December , 2003 , with John Kerry running a close third at 18 % .
As a result , the unemployment rate for immigrant workers fell 0.6 percentage points during this period ( from 9.3 % to 8.7 % ) , while for native-born workers it rose 0.5 percentage points ( from 9.2 % to 9.7 % ) .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted July 17 - 21 among 1,480 adults , finds that just over half of all Americans ( 54 % ) say that abortion should be legal in all or most cases . Fewer ( 40 % ) say it should be illegal in all or most cases . At the national level , public views on abortion have changed little over the last few years , and the balance of opinion has remained largely consistent for most of the past two decades ( see : Views on Abortion , 1995 - 2013 ) .
Hispanics make up a growing share of the nation 's nearly 7 million community college students . In 2013 , 22 % of all enrolled public two-year college students were Hispanics – a greater share than their makeup of all students – and that figure has risen from 14 % in 2000 . The share of black students in public community colleges increased at a much lower rate over the same time period , from 12 % to 15 % , while the share of white and Asian/Pacific Islander students declined .
Majorities of adults 30 years old and younger ( 57 % ) and ages 30 - 49 ( 54 % ) say they would rather have a bigger government providing more services . Fewer adults ages 50 - 64 ( 38 % ) and adults ages 65 and older ( 40 % ) say this . Those with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more are much less likely than those with lower incomes to say they 'd prefer a bigger government that provides more services . Just about a third of those earning $ 75,000 or more ( 35 % ) say this , compared to 44 % of those with family incomes between $ 30,000 and $ 75,000 and nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of those making less than $ 30,000 a year .
The rise in approval of GOP leaders is largely attributable to a turnaround among Republicans : 68 % approve of GOP leaders ' performance now ; only 26 % did so two years ago . For most of the past six years Republicans have given GOP leaders in Congress relatively low approval ratings . Republicans have controlled the House since 2010 and took control of the Senate in 2014 . In September 2015 , a tumultuous period during which former House Speaker John Boehner resigned , just 26 % of Republicans and Republican leaners approved of the job GOP leaders were doing . Today , with Republicans in full control of Congress , as well as the White House , 68 % of Republicans and Republican leaners approve of their job performance . Democrats ' views of their party 's leaders have shown less change over this period . Currently , 58 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners approve of their job performance . In September 2015 , 59 % of Democrats gave the party 's leaders positive approval ratings .
And , two weeks after Republican Scott Brown won the Massachusetts special election for Edward M. Kennedy 's Senate seat , 60 % of Americans say they do not think health care legislation will pass this year . That 's down slightly from 67 % just after the special election , but still a stark reversal from immediately before the Jan. 19 vote . At that point , 57 % said they thought legislation would pass this year , while 33 % said they thought it would not . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) now say they do not know , up from 5 % one week earlier .
Another factor is the way that society views the bond between mothers and their children . In a 2012 Pew Research survey , the vast majority of Americans ( 79 % ) rejected the notion that women should return to their traditional role in society . Yet when they were asked what is best for young children , very few adults ( 16 % ) said that having a mother who works full time is the `` ideal situation . '' Some 42 % said that having a mother who works part time is ideal and 33 % said what 's best for young children is to have a mother who does n't work at all . Even among full-time working moms , only about one-in-five ( 22 % ) said that having a full-time working mother is ideal for young children . When asked what 's best for women themselves , the public expressed a similar sentiment . Only 12 % of adults said the ideal situation for women with young children is to work full time . About half ( 47 % ) said working part time is ideal for these women , while 33 % said not working at all would be the best situation . The public applies a much different standard to fathers . When we asked about the ideal situation for men with young children , fully seven-in-ten adults said working full time would be ideal for these fathers . One-in-five adults said part-time work would be ideal and only 4 % said it would be best for these dads not to work at all .
There is widespread opposition to internet censorship in emerging and developing nations . Majorities in 22 of 24 countries surveyed say it is important that people have access to the internet without government censorship . In 12 nations , at least seven-in-ten hold this view . Opposition to government restrictions on the internet is especially common in several of the Latin American nations surveyed , including Venezuela , Chile , Argentina , Brazil , Mexico and Bolivia . It is also widespread in the Middle Eastern nations of Lebanon and Egypt .
Though they tend not to get much attention from Beltway insiders , state legislatures are key players in redrawing congressional-district boundaries . In most states , it 's the state legislature that takes the lead role in drawing new district maps , according to the National Conference of State Legislatures . ( Commissions do this job in 13 states and have advisory or backup roles in seven others , although the Supreme Court is currently weighing the legality of the commissions ' task . ) Given the inherently political nature of redistricting , which party controls the legislature can be crucial to a state 's final maps and thus , control of Congress . Democrats have `` suffered devastating losses at all levels of government '' over the past several election cycles , the DNC report noted . According to our analysis of NCSL data , the Democratic Party today has 919 fewer legislative seats than it did in 2009 . Democrats control both legislative chambers in just 11 states , down from 34 states in 1982 and 27 as recently as 2010 , though that number had fluctuated in the years in between . Meanwhile , Republicans have gained a total of 888 legislative seats since 2009 , and control both chambers in a record-high 30 states . In eight other states , each party controls one chamber .
As people have gained more access to computers and cell phones , internet and email usage have also increased . A median of 45 % across the 18 countries for which 2007 trends are available now say they use the internet at least occasionally ; three years ago , when the Pew Global Attitudes Project first asked this question , a median of 35 % said that was the case . The median percentage that sends or receives email at least occasionally has also risen , although not as steeply , from 29 % in 2007 to 34 % in 2010 .
Younger generations tend to be more favorable toward international organizations . Millennials are at least 10 percentage points more favorable toward the United Nations than are Gen Xers or Boomers . Opinions of the multilateral organization have largely fluctuated in tandem since the question was first asked in 2004 .
Facing a variety of national problems – crime , drugs , corruption , a troubled economy – Mexicans overwhelmingly are dissatisfied with the direction of their country . With drug-related violence affecting much of Mexico , large majorities describe crime ( 81 % ) and illegal drugs ( 73 % ) as very big problems , and Mexicans overwhelmingly endorse President Felipe Calderón 's tough stance against drug traffickers .
In 2012 , Hispanics made up about an equal proportion of all public high school graduates ( 18 % ) and all college students ( ages 18 to 24 ) ( 19 % ) . Whites , blacks and Asians also had about the same share of public high school graduates as college enrollees .
Fully 85 % of foreign-born self-identified Hispanics say that when they were growing up , their parents often encouraged them to speak Spanish . But that share falls to 68 % among the U.S.-born second generation and to just 26 % of the third or higher generation Hispanics .
The public has mixed reactions to the U.S. response to the influx of hundreds of thousands of migrants arriving in Europe in recent weeks . By a narrow 51 % -45 % margin , more approve than disapprove of the U.S. decision to increase the number of refugees it accepts to help deal with this situation .
A new poll finds that the public is as interested in the Supreme Court 's upcoming ruling on the Voting Rights Act as in its long-awaited decisions on same-sex marriage . Roughly a third of Americans ( 35 % each ) say they are very interested in both how the court will rule on whether parts of the Voting Rights Act are still necessary and on federal and state laws on gay marriage . A third ( 33 % ) express little or no interest in how the court rules on the Voting Rights Act , while 40 % say they are not too or not at all interested in the court 's rulings on gay marriage . The Pew Research Center survey was conducted June 20 - 23 among 1,005 adults , before the Supreme Court 's ruling Monday on affirmative action in college admissions . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) had said they were very interested in that decision .
Roughly equal shares of the public expect the `` overall level of ethics and honesty in the federal government '' to rise ( 29 % ) , fall ( 34 % ) or stay the same ( 33 % ) with Trump as president . As with expectations for Trump 's success in office , predictions about federal ethics and honesty during his tenure as president are split along partisan and ideological lines . About half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 53 % ) expect ethics and honesty in government will rise ; 39 % say they will stay the same while just 6 % expect them to fall . By contrast , 59 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say they will fall , 27 % expect they will stay the same and just 10 % say they will rise . There are ideological divides within the two parties – 72 % of liberal Democrats , compared with 49 % of conservative and moderate Democrats , expect the level of ethics and honesty to fall with Trump as president . And while 35 % of conservative and moderate Democrats expect little change in the overall level of ethics in the federal government , just 19 % of liberals say this ( only 8 % of liberals and 13 % of conservative and moderate Democrats expect ethical levels to rise ) .
This week , Secretary of State John Kerry said the U.S. would resettle 85,000 global refugees in the coming fiscal year and 100,000 in fiscal 2017 , marking a significant – though far from historic – increase in taking in the world 's most desperate . Conflicts in the Middle East , Africa and elsewhere are driving hundreds of thousands of refugees to Europe , creating a humanitarian crisis that European leaders have been struggling to manage . Pope Francis has called on Europe 's Catholics to do more to house refugees , and he is expected to address the issue again during his current U.S. visit .
As he prepares for his second inauguration , Barack Obama is in a stronger position with the public than he was over much of his first term . At 52 % , his job approval rating is among the highest since the early months of his presidency . His personal favorability , currently 59 % , has rebounded from a low of 50 % in the fall campaign . And increasing percentages describe him as a strong leader , able to get things done and as someone who stands up for his beliefs . Obama 's political advantage is enhanced by the poor standing of his Republican counterparts . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 9 - 13 among 1,502 adults finds that both House Speaker John Boehner and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell are viewed more unfavorably than favorably .
Criticism of Castro in Latin America is most intense in Mexico ( 61 % negative vs. 17 % positive ) and Venezuela ( 55 % negative vs. 26 % positive ) , where clear majorities see his leadership as harmful to his country . Chile is the only other country in Latin America where the balance of opinion is more negative ( 46 % ) than positive ( 23 % ) .
Net interest payments on the debt are estimated to total $ 393.5 billion this fiscal year , or 8.7 % of all federal outlays . ( The government projects it will pay out a total of $ 593.1 billion in interest in fiscal 2019 , which ends Sept. 30 , but that includes interest credited to Social Security and other government trust funds . ) By comparison , debt service was more than 15 % of federal outlays in the mid-1990s . The share has fallen partly because lower rates have held down interest payments , but also because outlays have risen substantially , up about 29 % over the past decade .
Views among Republicans are much chillier : 43 % give cold ratings to college professors , including about a quarter ( 27 % ) who give a very cold rating . A significantly smaller share of Republicans ( 30 % ) give professors a warm rating , while 25 % take a neutral view . Conservative Republicans are especially likely to give very ( 31 % ) or somewhat ( 20 % ) cold ratings to professors . By contrast , moderate and liberal Republicans hold quite different views : More offer warm ( 49 % ) than cold ( 20 % ) assessments of professors .
Rural internet users are now just as likely as users in urban and suburban areas to have used these sites . Some 68 % of rural internet users have gone to such sites , compared with 71 % of online suburbanites and 72 % of online urban residents . Those are statistically insignificant differences and show that since 2009 , online rural residents have caught up to others in using these sites .
Far more Republicans ( 32 % ) than Democrats ( 12 % ) say they are angry with the government . But higher shares in both parties expressed anger toward government in October 2013 , during the partial government shutdown . While anger at government has been higher among Republicans than Democrats during Barack Obama 's administration , the situation was reversed during George W. Bush 's presidency : In October 2006 , 29 % of Democrats said they were angry with government , compared with just 9 % of Republicans .
Only around two-in-ten ( 19 % ) have a favorable opinion of the U.S. , with nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) expressing a negative view of their NATO ally . Opinions of the U.S. have been relatively steady over the past decade , although prior to the 2003 Iraq War , opinions of the U.S. were on balance less negative . Seven-in-ten Turks have a negative opinion of NATO , whose members include most EU countries as well as the U.S. and Canada . Dislike for NATO is particularly intense , with 53 % of Turks saying they have a very unfavorable opinion of the treaty organization . Opinions of NATO in Turkey have been consistently low since the question was first asked in 2011 , although very unfavorable opinions are up 21 points from last year .
As leaders from the U.S. and China meet this week in Beijing to discuss a range of economic and political issues , Americans are more likely to support stronger economic ties with China than a tougher approach . About half of Americans ( 51 % ) say it is more important to build a stronger relationship with China on economic issues , while 41 % say it is more important to get tougher with China , according to a poll conducted Feb. 12 - 26 among 3,337 adults . This data was released in the Pew Research Center 's political typology study on June 26 . Two years ago , the balance of opinion was the opposite . Nearly half ( 49 % ) of Americans in 2012 said it was more important to get tougher with China , while fewer ( 42 % ) viewed a stronger relationship as more important .
Large numbers of Muslims in several countries surveyed also see a struggle taking place within their countries between Islamic fundamentalists and those who want to modernize the nation . In Turkey , in particular , a large and growing majority sees such a conflict taking place , but this view also is common in Lebanon , Tanzania , Indonesia and Pakistan .
Around six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 63 % ) say the nation 's economic system unfairly favors powerful interests , compared with a third ( 33 % ) who say it is generally fair to most Americans , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . While overall views on this question are little changed in recent years , the partisan divide has grown . For the first time since the Center first asked the question in 2014 , a clear majority of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 57 % ) now say the economic system is generally fair to most Americans . As recently as the spring of 2016 , a 54 % majority of Republicans took the view that the economic system unfairly favors powerful interests . And while wide majorities of Democrats and Democratic leaners have long said that the U.S. economic system unfairly favors powerful interests , the share who say this has increased since 2016 – from 76 % then to 84 % today .
Overwhelming majorities of Americans say cooperation with other countries is important when dealing with each of the international issues tested , and this is especially true of the spread of infectious diseases . On this issue , 86 % say it is very important to cooperate with other countries , and 97 % say it is at least somewhat important to cooperate .
The wealth gap between America 's high income group and everyone else has reached record high levels since the economic recovery from the Great Recession of 2007 - 09 , with a clear trajectory of increasing wealth for the upper-income families and no wealth growth for the middle- and lower-income families . A new Pew Research Center analysis of wealth finds the gap between America 's upper-income and middle-income families has reached its highest level on record . In 2013 , the median wealth of the nation 's upper-income families ( $ 639,400 ) was nearly seven times the median wealth of middle-income families ( $ 96,500 ) , the widest wealth gap seen in 30 years when the Federal Reserve began collecting these data .
About seven-in-ten officers ( 71 % ) who are frequently angry and frustrated agree that aggressive tactics are more useful than a courteous approach in some parts of their community . By contrast , about half of officers who are not frequently angry or frustrated say the same ( 48 % ) .
With parliamentary elections approaching later this month , Tunisian support for democracy has declined steeply since the early days of the Arab Spring . Just 48 % of Tunisians now say democracy is preferable to other kinds of government , down from 63 % in a 2012 poll conducted only months after a popular uprising removed longtime dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from office .
About six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say food safety is a very big problem , and 54 % say the same about health care . Roughly four-in-ten or fewer are troubled by people leaving for jobs in other countries ( 38 % ) , traffic ( 33 % ) and electricity shortages ( 31 % ) .
In other news last week the rising price of gas was by far the public 's most closely followed news story . Nearly two-thirds of the public ( 64 % ) reported following the rising price of gas very closely , while 31 % named it as their top story of the week . Interest in rising gas prices has remained high in recent weeks ( 63 % very closely during May 2 - 5 ) . About one-in-five Americans ( 19 % ) paid very close attention to the decision by the California Supreme Court giving same-sex couples the right to marry ; just 5 % cited this as their top story of the week . News organizations devoted 3 % of all coverage to the decision . George Bush 's second trip to the Middle East this year attracted relatively little public interest : 12 % followed the story very closely , while 3 % listed it as the story they followed most closely .
Through it all , the public 's perceptions of economic news have changed very little . Currently , 61 % say the news they are hearing about the economy is a mix of good and bad , 33 % say it is mostly bad and just 5 % say it is mostly good .
A story which received relatively little media coverage last week attracted a great deal of public interest . The recall of more than 100 brands of pet food due to possible contamination was the second most closely followed news story last week . Only the war in Iraq attracted more public interest . Nearly three-in-ten Americans ( 28 % ) followed the pet food recall very closely , and 17 % said it was the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . The national news media devoted 1 % of its overall coverage to the pet food recall . The story was covered more heavily in newspapers ( 3 % ) than in other sectors . With the Virginia Tech shootings falling off of the national news media 's agenda last week , the public shifted its focus back to the Iraq war . The situation in Iraq was the public 's most closely followed news story . Fully 38 % followed news about events in Iraq very closely ( up from 27 % the previous week ) , and 28 % said this was the story they followed most closely . During a week in which George Bush vetoed Congress 's war-funding bill , the Iraq policy debate also attracted a good deal of public interest : 30 % followed the debate very closely ( up from 18 % the previous week ) and 13 % listed it as their most closely followed story . Media coverage of the war focused more on the policy debate than events on the ground . The 2008 presidential campaign was the most heavily covered news story last week — making up 13 % of the overall newshole . Nearly one quarter of the public ( 23 % ) followed campaign news very closely and 11 % said it was the story they followed most closely last week . In spite of the GOP candidates ' May 3 debate , Democrats followed the campaign more closely than Republicans . The release of George Tenet 's book about his experiences as CIA director attracted little public interest in spite of a significant amount of media coverage . Only 9 % of the public followed news of Tenet 's book very closely and 3 % listed this as their most closely followed story . The book release received relatively little coverage in newspapers or online news sources , but it was heavily covered on television and radio news . Nearly 10 % of the coverage on network TV news ( 9 % ) , cable TV news ( 8 % ) and radio news ( 9 % ) was devoted to Tenet 's book .
Today , according to new Pew Research Center data not yet released in a report , 88 % of Germans say they have confidence in Obama to do the right thing in world affairs . In stark contrast , just 14 % had confidence in Bush during his last year in office . Across Europe , Obama has received more favorable reviews than Bush , but the gap between the two American leaders has been especially wide among Germans . And while Obama 's ratings have slipped a bit over time in countries such as Britain , Spain and Poland , they 've remained relatively steady in Germany , with roughly nine-in-ten consistently expressing a positive view of Obama since he took office in 2009 .
Overall in states where there is a Senate contest , support for Senate candidates is roughly evenly divided . The share of voters supporting the Democratic candidate ( 45 % ) in their state is similar to the share supporting the Republican candidate ( 43 % ) , and 8 % of voters say they are n't sure at this point whom they will support .
About half each say health care costs ( 53 % ) and the price of food and consumer goods ( 48 % ) have a major impact . By contrast , just 22 % say the federal budget deficit affects their finances a lot and 21 % say the same about `` how the stock market is doing . ''
Most people agree it is important for women to have the same rights as men in their country . Across the 34 countries surveyed , a median of 94 % hold this view , including nearly all in Sweden , the Netherlands , France , the U.S. , Canada , Germany , Greece , Spain , Australia , Argentina , the UK and Hungary .
A plurality of Americans ( 44 % ) say that average American 15-year-olds rank at the bottom on standardized tests of science knowledge , when compared with students in other developed nations , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March . The survey finds that 35 % correctly know that U.S. 15-year-olds are about in the middle when it comes to science knowledge ; 7 % say incorrectly that American students rank among the top of developed nations .
President Barack Obama is on pace to leave the White House with a smaller federal prison population than when he took office – a distinction no president since Jimmy Carter has had , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Bureau of Justice Statistics . The number of sentenced prisoners in federal custody fell 5 % ( or 7,981 inmates ) between the end of 2009 , Obama 's first year in office , and 2015 , the most recent year for which BJS has final , end-of-year statistics . Preliminary figures for 2016 show the decline continued during Obama 's last full year in office and that the overall reduction during his tenure will likely exceed 5 % .
Young adults who do not have a college degree are delaying marriage to such an extent that the median age at first marriage in 2008 was , for the first time ever , the same for the college-educated and those who were not college-educated : 28 . As recently as 2000 , there had been a two-year gap , with the typical college-educated adult marrying for the first time at 28 and the typical adult lacking a college degree marrying for the first time at 26 .
An estimated 2.3 million Hispanics of Salvadoran origin resided in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Salvadorans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Salvadoran origin ; this includes immigrants from El Salvador and those who trace their family ancestry to El Salvador . Salvadorans are the third-largest population ( tied with Cubans ) of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 4 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Salvadoran-origin population has increased 225 % , growing from 711,000 to 2.3 million over the period . At the same time , the Salvadoran foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 142 % , from 539,000 in 2000 to 1.3 million in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
The most common arrangement for older U.S. adults , however , is to live as a couple without any other children or relatives . Almost half of U.S. adults ages 60 and older live in such households ( 46 % ) , compared with a global average of 31 % . Conversely , older Americans are much less likely to live with a wider circle of relatives . Just 6 % of older U.S. adults live in extended-family households , compared with 38 % of adults ages 60 and older globally .
As was true in 2008 , a plurality of partisan online political users gravitate towards news that shares their own political point of view In the 2008 presidential election , we found for the first time that online political users were more likely to say that they typically got online political news from sites that shared their point of view , as opposed to sites that do n't have a particular point of view .3 This trend continued in 2010 , as 34 % of online political users said that most of the political news and information they get online comes from sites that share their point of view—compared with 30 % who typically get news from sites that do n't have a point of view , and 21 % who get news from sites that differ from their own point of view . As we found in 2008 , views on this subject are correlated with partisan identification—both Republicans and Democrats were more likely than political independents to say that they typically get online political news from sources that share their political point of view .
In addition to these core religious beliefs , 69 % of U.S. Muslims also put a premium on working for justice and equality in society , and 62 % consider it essential to safeguard the environment . The importance of the environment is even more prominent among those who say religion is very important in their lives ; 68 % of this group say protecting the environment is essential to their Muslim identity , compared with only half ( 51 % ) of those who say religion is less important to them . About half ( 48 % ) of U.S. Muslims say eating halal ( religiously sanctioned ) food is essential to their religious identity , and 44 % say the same about dressing modestly . Modest dress is more important to women ( 52 % ) than men ( 36 % ) .
The survey asked respondents whether they would go to live in another country , if they had the means and opportunity . At least four-in-ten in each sub-Saharan country surveyed answered yes , including roughly three-quarters of those surveyed in Ghana ( 75 % ) and Nigeria ( 74 % ) .
Americans ' anxieties about privacy extend to the realm of digital romance . Some 30 % of U.S. adults say they have ever used a dating app or site , and among them , a majority ( 57 % ) report being either very or somewhat concerned about how much data such services collect about them . Older online daters tend to be more worried about this type of data collection than their younger counterparts . About half ( 48 % ) of online dating users ages 18 to 29 say they are very or somewhat concerned about data collection , while larger majorities of older users express concern . Online dating users 50 and older are especially likely to be `` very '' concerned about data collection . There are also modest differences by gender among online daters , with women more concerned than men .
Notably , more than nine-in-ten Republicans ( 93 % ) cite ISIS as a major threat , compared with 79 % of Democrats . Republicans also are also far more likely than Democrats to view Iran 's nuclear program as a major threat ( 79 % vs. 52 % ) .
Over the course of George W. Bush 's two terms in office , Democratic ratings of the court remained lower than Republican ratings , and lower than they had been following Bill Clinton 's nominations of Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer to the court ( in December of 1997 , 81 % of Democrats had a favorable impression of the Supreme Court ) . Republican favorability is down from 70 % in April 2009 — a month prior to Sotomayor 's nomination — and 80 % in April 2008 in the last year of Bush 's presidency . As a result , for the first time since the Clinton administration , more Democrats ( 65 % ) than Republicans ( 52 % ) have a favorable impression of the court .
Regardless of what they would like to see happen with the law , a growing share of Americans – across partisan lines – now see a dim future for the law 's major provisions . Roughly half of U.S. adults ( 53 % ) expect that its major provisions will probably be eliminated , while 39 % say they are probably here to stay . About six-in-ten Republicans ( 63 % ) predict the ACA 's major provisions will be eliminated , while about a third ( 32 % ) expect them to stay . Democrats are more divided , however : 45 % say major provisions are likely to stay , while a similar share ( 49 % ) expects they will be eliminated .
Most Americans say it would be too risky to give presidents more power . About three-quarters of the public ( 76 % ) say it would be `` too risky '' to give presidents more power to deal directly with the nation 's problems . Just 21 % support the view that problems could be better dealt with if presidents could worry less about Congress and the courts . Since 2016 , Republicans have become less likely – and Democrats more likely – to say it would be too risky to give presidents more power . Still , large majorities in both parties ( 70 % of Republicans and 83 % of Democrats ) oppose the idea of giving presidents more power .
There are differences by age as well , but even among families headed by a young adult ( those under 35 ) , 41 % own some stock , either directly or indirectly . This is true of a majority of households headed by those ages 35 to 64 and half of those ages 65 and older . Assets accumulated over time also vary by age . The median amount invested by young adult households is relatively small – $ 7,700 among those younger than 35 . And it rises steadily with age : $ 22,000 for households headed by 35- to 44-year-olds , $ 51,000 for those ages 45 to 54 and $ 80,000 or higher for those 55 and older .
Today , on International Women 's Day , people around the world are celebrating the social , economic , cultural and political achievements of women . Gender equality and women 's empowerment is one of the Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations . And gender equality is among the most widely accepted democratic principles around the world , according to a 2015 Pew Research Center survey . Majorities in 37 of the 38 countries surveyed say that gender equality is at least somewhat important ( Burkina Faso is the exception ) . And a global median of 65 % believe it is very important that women have the same rights as men , ranking second only to support for religious freedom among the six democratic values tested . Gender equality ranks above support for the democratic principles of competitive elections , free speech , a free press and internet freedom .
Growing shares of Americans – especially those who are lower-income – rely on smartphones to access the internet . Overall , 12 % of U.S. adults were `` smartphone-only '' internet users in 2016 – meaning they owned a smartphone but did not have broadband internet at home . This represents an increase from 8 % in 2013 . Reliance on smartphones to go online varies greatly by income . One-in-five adults whose annual household income falls below $ 30,000 are smartphone-only internet users , compared with only 4 % of those living in households earning $ 100,000 or more .
Nearly six-in-ten registered voters ( 57 % ) who support Clinton say it is a lot more difficult to be black than white , while 29 % say it is a little more difficult and 13 % say it is no more difficult . Among Trump supporters just 11 % think it is a lot more difficult to be black than white , 42 % say it is a little more difficult and 44 % think it is no more difficult . Clinton supporters are divided racially and ideologically on both questions . About half of white Clinton supporters ( 53 % ) say it is lot more difficult to be black than white ; that is less than the share of black Clinton supporters who say this ( 67 % ) . However , just 10 % of white Trump supporters say it is much more difficult to be black than white .
In general , the public expresses the most interest in news from Iraq and Afghanistan , where thousands of U.S. forces have been stationed for years . Nearly eight-in-ten say they are very or somewhat interested in what happens in Iraq ( 78 % ) and Afghanistan ( 77 % ) .
In both countries , confidence in Trump and feelings toward the U.S. are related to the sentiment of words chosen . Those with no confidence in Trump are at least twice as likely as those who express confidence in him to use a negative word to describe the U.S. ( 60 % vs. 22 % in Canada , 33 % vs. 15 % in Mexico ) . The same goes for views of the U.S. : Those with an unfavorable view of the U.S. are at least twice as those with a favorable view to use a negative word to describe the U.S. ( 70 % vs. 30 % in Canada , 44 % vs. 13 % in Mexico ) .
Nearly two-thirds of the 5.4 million legal immigrants from Mexico who are eligible to become citizens of the United States have not yet taken that step . Their rate of naturalization—36 % —is only half that of legal immigrants from all other countries combined , according to an analysis of Census Bureau data by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center . Mexicans are also the largest group of legal permanent residents—accounting for 3.9 million out of 12 million . The Center 's analysis of current naturalization rates among Mexican legal immigrants suggests that creating a pathway to citizenship for immigrants in the country illegally does not mean all would pursue that option . Many could choose an intermediate status—legal permanent resident—that would remove the threat of deportation , enable them to work legally and require them to pay taxes , but not afford them the full rights of U.S. citizenship , including the right to vote .
Facebook claims the largest share of social media news consumers , and its news users are much more likely to rely solely on that site for news . Just under half ( 45 % ) of U.S. adults use Facebook for news . Half of Facebook 's news users get news from that social media site alone , with just one-in-five relying on three or more sites for news .
Survey results are mostly unaffected when the non-Web respondents are left out . There is little or no difference between the full ( Web and mail combined ) sample and Web-only sample in a majority of topics that were asked about . Only nine survey items we tested yielded a difference of 5 or more percentage points , while the other 397 ( 98 % ) of the survey items yielded a difference of 4 percentage points or less . More specifically , about two-thirds of the 406 items yielded estimates with a difference of zero or 1 point . One area where there were significant differences was survey items relating to technology . The nine out of 406 survey items that have a difference of at least 5 percentage points between the full sample and the Web sample are related to internet or technology use . There is a 13-point difference in daily internet use between the Web-only sample ( 82 % ) and of the total sample ( 69 % ) . About eight-in-ten of Americans in the Web-only sample said they had sent email or texts to friends or family the day before , compared with about seven-in-ten in the total sample . Fully 90 % in the Web-only sample own a desktop or laptop , compared with 80 % in the total sample .
More than 22.4 million people applied in 2017 to a U.S. visa program that provides 50,000 green cards , or lawful permanent residence , each year through a lottery system , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. State Department data . The number of applicants nearly matched the record 23 million applicants received in 2016 and came as the Trump administration and some members of Congress have sought to eliminate the program – the only one of its kind globally . Since 2005 , more than 200 million people from countries around the world have applied for the program , known as the U.S. diversity lottery , which seeks to diversify the nation 's immigrant population by granting visas to immigrants from nations that are underrepresented among recently arrived immigrants .
Participation at a high school level has soared in recent years , as well . More than 370,000 girls and 410,000 boys play on sports teams governed by the National Federation of State High School Associations . It is now the fourth-most popular sport for high school girls and fifth-most popular one for boys .
Across the 20 publics surveyed , environmental concerns extend beyond the issue of climate change : Large majorities rate a host of environmental issues as big problems , including air and water pollution , overburdened landfills , deforestation and the loss of plant and animal species . In general terms , environmental concerns trump economic considerations : When asked to choose , a median of 71 % said environmental protection should be the greater priority even if it caused slower economic growth and loss of jobs ; a much smaller median of 25 % said creating jobs should be the priority ( the survey was conducted before the coronavirus pandemic and resultant economic strains took hold in many of these publics ) . Consistent with environmental worries , majorities across all 20 publics say the more important energy priority should be increasing production of renewable energy such as wind and solar sources over increasing production of oil , natural gas and coal ( median of 86 % to 10 % ) . Views about specific energy sources underscore this pattern with strong majorities in favor of expanding the use of wind , solar and hydropower sources and much less support , by comparison , for energy sources such as oil or coal . Views on expanding natural gas fall somewhere in between .
Across these five non-European countries , evaluations of how well the European Union handled COVID-19 varied widely . In both Canada and the U.S. , around six-in-ten or more said the EU had done a good job when surveyed this summer . In Australia , evaluations were mixed : 46 % approved of the EU 's handling of the global pandemic while 45 % said it had done a poor job . And in Japan and South Korea , half or more said the EU had done a bad job dealing with the outbreak ( 52 % and 78 % , respectively ) . While overall favorability of the EU also varied widely across these countries – from a low of 47 % in Japan to a high of 71 % in Canada – in each country , perceptions of how well the EU had done handling COVID-19 is related to favorability of the EU .
There has been a similar decline in Germans ' views of Russia , beginning before the 2014 fighting in eastern Ukraine . In 2010 , half of Germans saw Russia favorably . By 2015 , only 27 % hold such views , although that figure is up from 19 % in 2014 , despite continuing tensions over Ukraine . Russians ' opinion of Germany has deteriorated even more . In 2011 , 78 % of Russians saw Germany in a positive light . In 2015 , less than half that proportion ( 35 % ) voiced such sentiment .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted August 20 - 24 among 1,501 adults finds that 33 % say there are plenty of jobs available where they live , while 58 % say that jobs are difficult to find . The share saying jobs are available has ticked up from 29 % in July and 27 % in April . Nearly two years ago , in December 2012 , just 22 % said there were plenty of jobs locally . Moreover , there is broad agreement among the public that the economic recovery remains weak . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) say `` the economy is recovering , but not so strongly . '' Just 8 % say the economy is recovering strongly , while three times as many ( 24 % ) say it is not recovering at all . These opinions are virtually unchanged from April .
Americans are relying less on television for their news . Just 50 % of U.S. adults now get news regularly from television , down from 57 % a year prior in early 2016 . But that audience drain varies across the three television sectors : local , network and cable . Local TV has experienced the greatest decline but still garners the largest audience of the three , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis . From 2016 to 2017 , the portion of Americans who often rely on local TV for their news fell 9 percentage points , from 46 % to 37 % . By comparison , reliance on network TV news declined from 30 % to 26 % . Cable TV news use remained more stable , with 28 % often getting news there last year , compared with 31 % in 2016 . Even after these declines , local TV still has a wider reach overall for news than network and cable . Some demographic groups turn to each of the three television venues more than others , however .
But just 31 % said they were satisfied with the way things were going in the U.S. , while more than twice as many ( 66 % ) were dissatisfied . Public satisfaction with the state of the nation has been very low for many years . In fact , it has not consistently reached 50 % since late in Bill Clinton 's administration . Measures of national satisfaction have been in negative territory throughout Barack Obama 's presidency – as they were throughout most of the presidencies of his recent predecessors , George W. Bush and Bill Clinton . Over the course of Obama 's more than seven and a half years in office , overall public satisfaction with the state of the nation has never been higher than 34 % .
The Republican nomination contest is being increasingly shaped by ideology and religion as it moves toward the Super Tuesday states on Feb. 5 . John McCain has moved out to a solid lead nationally , increasing his support among Republican and GOP-leaning voters from 22 % in late December to 29 % currently . Mike Huckabee , at 20 % , and Mitt Romney , with 17 % , trail McCain . Rudy Giuliani is a distant fourth , polling just 13 % . Giuliani 's support has declined seven points since late December .
The number of illegal entries into Europe by migrants hit a high point last year , and as their numbers increased , a picture emerged of the land and sea routes many migrants are taking to get there . In 2015 , more than 1.8 million people crossed the European Union 's borders illegally , according to Frontex , the agency responsible for coordinating the security of the EU 's external land and sea borders . This was up substantially from 2014 ( with about 280,000 detections of illegal border crossings ) and 2013 ( about 100,000 detections ) . In fact , 2015 saw the most illegal entries into the EU since Frontex began collecting data about a decade ago .
At the national level , there was almost no difference in these views between Republicans and Republican-leaning independents and Democrats and Democratic leaners . About half of Republicans and Democrats ( 51 % of each ) said it was better to avoid talking about political differences , while nearly as many said it was better to address differences to try to find common ground .
The findings indicate a downward drift in the number of those who use physical library facilities in any given year . In our first survey on this in November 2012 , 53 % of adults had visited a library or bookmobile in the past 12 months .
Republicans and Democrats have grown increasingly negative in their evaluations of presidents representing the other party . Partisan divisions over presidential performance are wider now than at any point going back more than six decades , and this growing gap is largely the result of increasing disapproval of the chief executive from the opposition party . An average of just 14 % of Republicans have approved of Barack Obama over the course of his presidency , compared with an average of 81 % of Democrats .
Prior to `` lockdown light '' in Germany and coronavirus cases soaring past records in early November in the U.S. , Germans were more likely than Americans to say that countries will cooperate more with other countries once the coronavirus crisis is over . In a slight increase from April , near the beginning of the outbreak , 46 % of Germans say that they expect countries will cooperate more with one another , while the share who say that countries will increase their focus on national interests declined 7 percentage points . On the other hand , the belief that countries will become more insular is slightly up among Americans , rising to 35 % from 29 % .
According to the 2002 National Survey of Latinos , 46 % of Hispanic adults speak both English and Spanish ( see Figure 1 ) , meaning that they report an ability to carry on a conversation in either English or Spanish at least `` pretty well . '' About 40 % are largely Spanish speakers , and 14 % are largely English speakers . Given that there were approximately 25 million Hispanic adults in the spring of 2002 ( U.S. Census Bureau 2003 ) , this suggests that there are roughly 11 million adult English/Spanish speaking bilingual Latinos . The remainder of the adult Hispanic population either possesses strong English or Spanish speaking skills , but not both . The 2002 National Survey of Latinos also asked adult Hispanics about their abilities to read English and Spanish , as well as their ability to carry on a conversation in English and Spanish . Comparing respondents ' abilities to read and speak in either English or Spanish , or in both languages , reveals that knowledge of a person 's reading abilities is sufficient to infer his/her speaking abilities . In other words , adults who are English/Spanish bilingual readers are bilingual speakers . However , the converse is not necessarily true . Not all Hispanics who have bilingual speaking abilities are necessarily able to read both languages . About three-quarters of Latino English/ Spanish bilingual speakers can also read both English and Spanish ( see Figure 2 ) . The rest report that they are unable to read one of the languages at least `` pretty well . '' Although adult English/Spanish bilingual Latinos have some proficiency in speaking both English and Spanish , they tend to use the languages differently depending on the setting . English is far and away the dominant language of U.S. commerce and trade , and dominates U.S. workplaces . English/Spanish bilingual Latinos report that they largely speak English in the workplace . About 60 % of bilingual Hispanic workers usually speak more English than Spanish at work ( 29 % ) , or use only English at work ( 33 % ) . Widespread Spanish language usage at work is relatively rare among bilingual workers . About one in ten report speaking `` more Spanish than English '' or `` only Spanish '' at work ( see Figure 3 ) .
Obama and his administration had been viewed positively by LGBT Americans even before this most recent expression of support for LGBT rights : The Pew Research Center 's survey of 1,197 LGBT adults , conducted this spring , found that Obama enjoyed significantly higher favorability ratings among LGBT adults than the general public . And according to the national exit polls , lesbian , gay and bisexual voters supported Obama 76 % to 22 % over Mitt Romney in the 2012 election . In the same survey , Obama was mentioned most frequently when respondents were asked to name national public figures most responsible for advancing LGBT rights : About a quarter ( 23 % ) of LGBT adults volunteered Obama .
Partisan alignment does not tell the whole story when it comes to voting patterns . Voter turnout rates – or the share of U.S. citizens ages 18 and older who cast a ballot – also vary widely across racial and ethnic groups . White adults historically have had the highest rate of voter turnout : About two-thirds of eligible White adults ( 65 % ) voted in the 2016 election . Black adults have also historically had relatively high rates of voter turnout , though typically slightly lower than White adults . There was an exception to this pattern in 2008 and 2012 , when Black voter turnout matched or exceeded that of Whites . By contrast , Asian and Hispanic adults have had historically lower voter turnout rates , with about half reporting that they voted in 2016 .
Polygamy is most often found in sub-Saharan Africa , where 11 % of the population lives in arrangements that include more than one spouse . Polygamy is widespread in a cluster of countries in West and Central Africa , including Burkina Faso , ( 36 % ) , Mali ( 34 % ) and Nigeria ( 28 % ) . In these countries , polygamy is legal , at least to some extent . Muslims in Africa are more likely than Christians to live in this type of arrangement ( 25 % vs. 3 % ) , but in some countries , the practice also is widespread among adherents of folk religions and people who do not identify with a religion . For example , in Burkina Faso , 45 % of people who practice folk religions , 40 % of Muslims and 24 % of Christians live in polygamous households . Chad is the only country in this analysis where Christians ( 21 % ) are more likely than Muslims ( 10 % ) to live in this type of arrangement . One-in-five U.S. adults believe that polygamy is morally acceptable , a recent Gallup poll found . This share has almost tripled ( from 7 % ) since the question was first asked in 2003 , but is still among the least accepted behaviors Gallup asks about . Self-described liberals are much more likely than conservatives to see polygamy as morally acceptable ( 34 % vs. 9 % ) . A Pew Research Center survey published in 2013 found that Muslims around the world are divided about polygamy : While majorities in several sub-Saharan African countries and pluralities in parts of the Middle East describe polygamy as morally acceptable , Muslims living in Central Asia as well as Southern and Eastern Europe tend to say that polygamy is immoral .
More Americans turn to the internet for campaign news : In the 2012 presidential election , 47 % of Americans used the internet as a main campaign news source , surpassing newspapers ( 27 % ) , radio ( 20 % ) and magazines ( 3 % ) , but still trailing television ( 67 % ) .
Disagreement between experts and the public arises when it comes to direct democracy . Only a minority of foreign policy experts ( 37 % ) think a democratic system where citizens vote directly on major national issues to decide what becomes law would be a good way to govern their country .
When asked a separate set of questions about whether the use of facial recognition technology is acceptable under certain circumstances , the public again expresses more acceptance of these tools when used by law enforcement agencies than in other situations . A 59 % majority of U.S. adults think it is acceptable for law enforcement agencies to use facial recognition technology to assess potential security threats in public spaces , while just 15 % find this unacceptable . The rest are either unsure if this is acceptable or have not heard of facial recognition technology in the first place . These differences are especially stark in the case of age . Fewer than half ( 42 % ) of 18- to-29-year-olds think it is acceptable for law enforcement agencies to use facial recognition to assess security threats in public spaces . But that share rises to 55 % among those ages 30 to 49 , to 65 % among those ages 50 to 64 , and to 76 % among those 65 and older . Indeed , just 6 % of older Americans think this is an unacceptable use of facial recognition technology . Additionally , a larger share of whites ( 64 % ) finds the use of facial recognition in public spaces by law enforcement to be acceptable relative to the shares of blacks ( 47 % ) or Hispanics ( 55 % ) who say the same . And Republicans ( including those who lean toward the Republican Party ) are somewhat more accepting of facial recognition when used by law enforcement relative to Democrats and Democratic leaners – although a majority of each group finds this acceptable .
These and other policy changes – rather than an increase in migrant apprehensions at the border – appear to the driving factor behind the recent surge in criminal immigration cases . While criminal arrests and prosecutions for immigration offenses both reached their highest level in two decades in fiscal 2018 , the number of border apprehensions that year ( 396,579 ) remained far below the levels recorded throughout most of the 1990s and early 2000s , when the number of apprehensions regularly topped 1 million per year . The BJS study notes that the number of criminal immigration arrests per 100 apprehensions at the U.S.-Mexico border nearly doubled between fiscal 2017 and 2018 , rising from 12.2 arrests per 100 apprehensions to 21 .
A close examination of the broadcast schedule suggests one reason why . Faced with multiple years of audience declines during traditional time slots – indeed , morning , early evening and late night news on local TV affiliates have lost on average 12 % of their viewers since 2007 – many local TV stations began expanding their programming to nontraditional hours such as very early morning , midday and at 7 p.m. , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Nielsen data . These additions are finding at least some new audiences willing to tune in . The 7 p.m. time slot carries special appeal for local stations as it immediately follows networks ' national news programs . In 2014 , that time slot saw the biggest growth among the three nontraditional time slots studied here , enjoying an 11 % increase from the year before . Over the past five years , newscasts on network affiliates in the 7 p.m. time slot have grown their audience by 8 % .
The composition of networks of friends varies widely across immigrant generations . Most ( 77 % ) immigrant Latinos say all or most of their friends are Latinos . But this share drops to 55 % among second-generation self-identified Latinos and only 37 % among third or higher generation self-identified Latinos .
Yet amidst these skeptical views , most Americans continue to believe that opportunity exists for those who make the effort . Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) say most people who want to get ahead can make it if they are willing to work hard . Some 38 % take the more pessimistic view that hard work and determination are no guarantee of success for most people . While opinions about the nexus between success and hard work have changed little since 2011 , a decade ago just 28 % were of the view that hard work and determination were no guarantee of success .
Most people say that today 's immigrants are either about as willing to adapt ( 32 % ) or more willing to adapt ( 26 % ) to the American way of life compared with immigrants who came to the United States in the early 1900s . Fewer ( 36 % ) say today 's immigrants are less willing to adapt .
The public also expresses more positive views of the Palestinian people than the government . While nearly half ( 46 % ) view the Palestinian people favorably , just 19 % have a favorable opinion of the Palestinian government .
The most potent driver of all these trends has been the near doubling of the Latino share of suburban school district enrollment—to 20 % in 2006 - 07 , from 11 % in 1993 - 94 . Over this same time period , the black share grew to 15 % from 12 % and the Asian share rose slightly , to 6 % from 5 % . Overall , white students made up just 59 % of the enrollment in suburban public schools in 2006 - 07 , down from 72 % in 1993 - 94 .
Public libraries , many Americans say , should offer programs to teach people digital skills ( 80 % think libraries should definitely do this ) and help patrons learn how to use new creative technologies like 3-D printers ( 50 % ) . At the same time , 57 % of Americans say libraries should definitely offer more comfortable places for reading , working and relaxing .
In recent years , the image of the United States has been largely negative in Turkey . In fact , Turkey was the country in which the U.S. received its lowest favorability rating in every Pew Global Attitudes survey conducted between 2006 and 2009 . This year , just 17 % of Turks have a positive opinion of the U.S. , tying Turkey with Pakistan and Egypt for the lowest U.S. favorability rating among the 22 nations surveyed . 1 Still , the number of Turks who hold a positive view of the U.S. is larger today than it was at its nadir in 2007 , when only 9 % rated the U.S. favorably . For instance , as negotiations regarding Turkey 's bid for membership in the European Union have stalled , attitudes toward the EU have deteriorated . In 2004 , 58 % of Turks held a favorable opinion of the EU , however , by 2009 this number had plummeted to 22 % . Views of the EU have improved slightly over the last year – currently , 28 % rate the organization favorably . Support for joining the EU has also declined : in 2005 , 68 % of Turks wanted their country to become an EU member ; today , a slim 54 % majority holds this view . Ratings for Iran and China have also tumbled in recent years . In 2006 , when the Pew Global Attitudes Project first asked about Iran , 53 % of Turks expressed a positive opinion ; today , just with 26 % hold this view . In 2005 , 40 % expressed a favorable opinion of China , compared with 20 % now . However , as is the case with the EU , ratings for both Iran and China did improve marginally between 2009 and 2010 .
From Figure 2 , we see that there is little difference among each of our categories between those active in religious or spiritual organizations and those not when a person has been in a locality from 1 to 19 years . However , those active in religious or spiritual organizations are more likely to have lived in a community for 20 years or more , while those who have lived in a community for less than a year are less likely to be active in religious or spiritual organizations .
Teens and young adults were among the groups hit hardest by the global financial crisis . And while many young people have since regained their footing – as employees , students or both – there are still millions in the U.S. and abroad who are neither working nor in school . Though sometimes referred to as `` disconnected '' or `` detached '' youth , globally those young people often are called `` NEETs '' – because they are neither employed nor in education or training . Although NEET rates rose both in the U.S. and the EU during and after the crisis , they jumped higher but have fallen faster in the U.S. By contrast , many EU countries ' NEET rates remain well above pre-crisis levels . ( While similar , the U.S. and EU measures are n't directly comparable – in part because the EU begins tracking young people 's labor-force participation at 15 rather than 16 , and also because apprenticeships and other workplace-based training is more common in Europe than in the U.S. ) In 2015 , there were nearly 10.2 million NEETS ages 16 to 29 in the U.S. , or 16.9 % of that age bracket 's total population , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics . That represents a modest decline over recent years : In 2013 , there were just over 11 million NEETs in the U.S. , representing 18.5 % of the 16-to-29 population , according to our analysis . What does the nation 's NEET population look like ? According to our analysis of the 2015 data on 16-to-29-year-olds , they 're more female than male ( 57 % to 43 % ) , and two-thirds have a high school education or less . Blacks and Hispanics are most likely to be NEETS : 22 % of young black people ages 16 - 29 are neither employed nor in school , versus 16 % of young whites . About 20 % of young Hispanics are NEET .
A new , nationally representative Pew Research Center survey of 4,248 U.S. adults finds that 41 % of Americans have been personally subjected to harassing behavior online , and an even larger share ( 66 % ) has witnessed these behaviors directed at others . In some cases , these experiences are limited to behaviors that can be ignored or shrugged off as a nuisance of online life , such as offensive name-calling or efforts to embarrass someone . But nearly one-in-five Americans ( 18 % ) have been subjected to particularly severe forms of harassment online , such as physical threats , harassment over a sustained period , sexual harassment or stalking . Around four-in-ten Americans ( 41 % ) have been personally subjected to at least one type of online harassment – which this report defines as offensive name-calling online ( 27 % of Americans say this has happened to them ) , intentional efforts to embarrass someone ( 22 % ) , physical threats ( 10 % ) , stalking ( 7 % ) , harassment over a sustained period of time ( 7 % ) or sexual harassment ( 6 % ) . This 41 % total includes 18 % of U.S. adults who say they have experienced particularly severe forms of harassment ( which includes stalking , physical threats , sexual harassment or harassment over a sustained period of time ) .
To understand what 's happened to the Great American Summer Job , the Center looked at the employment rate – or , more formally , the employment-population ratio – for 16- to 19-year-olds over the past seven decades . We took the average employment rate for June , July and August of each year as our measure of summer employment . ( We used non-seasonally adjusted data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics for this analysis , since teen employment rises sharply in the summer months and typically peaks in July . )
About half of workers with college training in a STEM field are working in a non-STEM job . Among workers ages 25 and older with at least a bachelor 's degree , one-in-three ( 33 % ) have an undergraduate degree in a STEM field of study . But only about half ( 52 % ) of these STEM-trained workers are employed in a STEM occupation . Among non-STEM occupations , management , business and finance jobs attract a substantial share of college graduates with STEM training ( 17 % ) , particularly those who majored in engineering . Roughly a quarter ( 24 % ) of engineering majors are in a managerial , business or finance job .
When the panel began , nearly two-thirds of respondents took their surveys on a PC or laptop . That share declined quickly through 2014 and 2015 and has continued to gradually decline since then . In a November 2018 wave of the panel , just over half of the interviews were conducted on a smartphone , while 39 % used a PC or laptop . About 8 % took the survey on a tablet computer , a figure that has remained fairly stable since the panel was created .
Trump 's presidency has been characterized by a favorable economic climate and that remains the case today . Currently , 51 % say economic conditions are either excellent or good – among the highest ratings in nearly two decades .
Overall , more whites continue to identify as Republicans than as Democrats ( 48 % vs. 44 % ) ; this is narrower than the 52 % -to-40 % advantage the GOP held in 2004 . Since then , Democratic Party identification has increased four points ( from 40 % to 44 % ) among white voters .
Unauthorized immigrants increasingly are likely to have been in the U.S. for 10 years or more – 66 % in 2014 compared with 41 % in 2005 . A declining share has lived in the U.S. for less than five years ; only 14 % had been in the U.S. for less than five years in 2014 , compared with 31 % in 2005 . This overall change has been fueled by the decline in new unauthorized immigrants , especially those from Mexico . Among Mexican unauthorized immigrants , fully 78 % had lived in the U.S. for 10 years or more as of 2014 , and only 7 % had been in the U.S. for less than five years . Among unauthorized immigrants from nations other than Mexico , a smaller share , but still a majority – 52 % – had lived in the U.S. for at least a decade in 2014 . Compared with Mexicans , a higher share of unauthorized immigrants from elsewhere – 22 % – had been in the U.S. for less than five years . Because of historic immigration patterns between the U.S. and Mexico , unauthorized immigrants are more likely to be long-term residents in Western states . In California , home to the largest unauthorized immigrant population in the U.S. , the median length of U.S. residence is 15.6 years , meaning that at least half have lived in the U.S. since the late 1990s . Some 71 % of unauthorized immigrants in California are of Mexican origin .
A majority agrees the U.S. should mind its own business internationally , the highest measure in nearly a half century of polling .
In today 's world , people — particularly young people — are continually finding and adapting new ways of communicating electronically to fit their needs . Case in point : 2015 marks the first time Pew Research Center has asked specifically about mobile messaging apps as a separate kind of mobile activity apart from cell phone texting . And already , according to a new survey , 36 % of smartphone owners report using messaging apps such as WhatsApp , Kik or iMessage , and 17 % use apps that automatically delete sent messages such as Snapchat or Wickr .
Roughly three-quarters ( 74 % ) of high-income Democrats had a favorable impression of the Fed , a view shared by just 40 % of high-income Republicans ( 54 % of whom viewed the Fed unfavorably ) . Democrats with family incomes of between $ 75,000 and $ 150,000 also had broadly positive views of the Fed ( 66 % favorable , 24 % unfavorable ) , while Republican views were divided ( 44 % vs. 45 % ) . Democrats with incomes of less than $ 30,000 felt less positively toward the Fed than did higher-income Democrats . Just 53 % viewed it favorably , while 30 % viewed it unfavorably . As a result , views among low- income households were not as polarized , but there was still a 13-percentage-point partisan difference in favorable views of the central bank ( 53 % of Democrats vs. 40 % of Republicans ) .
While Americans have minimal trust in the federal government , they also are skeptical of their own collective political wisdom . About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say they have a very great deal ( 7 % ) or good deal ( 31 % ) of trust and confidence in the wisdom of the American people when it comes to making political decisions . A 59 % majority says they have not very much confidence ( 47 % ) or no confidence at all ( 12 % ) in the public 's political wisdom .
The survey also asked the public to rate the ethical standards of police officers , a question that revealed similar demographic differences . While nearly three-quarters of the public said they would rate the ethical standards of police officers highly , just 52 % of black adults said the same . Views also differed by age . Adults ages 18 to 29 gave officers the lowest marks , with about six-in-ten ( 61 % ) saying they would rate officers ' ethical standards as high or very high . Adults 65 and older were 22 percentage points more likely to rate their ethical standards as high or very high ( 83 % ) .
The survey 's most widely accepted use of genetic intervention of animals involves mosquitoes . Seven-in-ten Americans ( 70 % ) believe that genetically engineering mosquitoes to prevent their reproduction and therefore the spread of some mosquito-borne diseases would be an appropriate use of technology , while about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) see the use of genetic engineering for this purpose as taking technology too far .
In 2017 , women represented 16 % of the overall active duty force , up from 9 % in 1980 and just 1 % in 1970 . The percentage of officers who are women has steadily grown since the 1970s . For example , in 1975 , 5 % of commissioned officers were women , and , by 2017 , that share had risen to 18 % .
These shifts are particularly noteworthy when party identification is taken into account . Just 27 % of young voters who identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party have given a lot of thought to this election , down from 47 % four years ago . Among older Democrats , there also has been a decline , from 53 % in 2006 to 43 % today . The current levels of interest among younger and older Democratic voters are fairly typical for a midterm election ; in 2006 , interest among both groups was particularly high . Overall , Republican and Republican-leaning voters are far more enthusiastic this fall than in any of the last four midterms . Fully two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Republican voters age 30 and older say they have given a lot of thought to the election , which is much higher than in recent midterm elections , including in 1994 when Republicans won control of Congress ( 53 % in the fall of 1994 ) . Young Republicans continue to be less engaged than older Republicans .
The presidential campaign continued to dominate national news coverage last week , and the public remained highly engaged in the ongoing contest . Nearly 40 % of the national newshole was devoted to the campaign , and 36 % of the public listed the campaign as the single news story they were following more closely than any other . Democratic frontrunners Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton were the most prominent figures in the news last week . When asked to name the person they had heard the most about in the news lately , 24 % of the public named Obama and 23 % named Clinton . In a week when he proposed a major economic stimulus plan , just 5 % of Americans named George Bush as the person they had heard the most about . About twice as many ( 11 % ) named Hollywood actor Heath Ledger , who died last week . Major economic news also drew heavy coverage and widespread interest last week . In all , the national news media devoted 19 % of its coverage to the economy ; 10 % of the coverage was focused on Bush 's economic stimulus plan and 5 % was focused on major fluctuations in the stock market . For its part , the public was somewhat more interested in stock market news than in the stimulus plan . Overall , 29 % of Americans followed stock market news very closely and 14 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . By comparison , 24 % say they followed news about the stimulus package very closely , and 11 % listed this as their most closely followed story .
Pew Research Center and Körber-Stiftung have conducted parallel surveys in the U.S. and Germany in recent years to learn more about the way Americans and Germans perceive the relationship between their countries . Based on these and other surveys , here are some fast facts about how people in the two nations see the importance of American military bases in Germany , as well as broader questions about security issues .
The Pew poll , conducted April-May 2007 , shows the extent to which Lebanon 's three major religious communities differ in their views of these two rival powers . Overwhelmingly , Christians see America in a positive light — 82 % have a favorable opinion of the United States . Shia , on the other hand , are decidedly negative — only 7 % have a favorable view . Sunnis occupy a middle ground , with roughly half ( 52 % ) holding a positive view . This is a considerably higher level of support than the United States receives among Lebanon 's largely Sunni neighbors — for instance , only 21 % of Egyptians , 20 % of Jordanians , 13 % of Palestinians , and 9 % of Turks hold a positive opinion of the U.S . In fact , the U.S. receives more favorable marks among Lebanese Sunnis than among some of America 's closest European allies , including Britain ( 51 % favorable ) , France ( 39 % ) , and Germany ( 30 % ) . Opinions of Iran follow a markedly different pattern . Positive views of the Islamic Republic are rare in both the Christian ( 14 % favorable ) and Sunni communities ( 8 % ) . However , Lebanese Shia overwhelmingly have favorable attitudes toward Iran ( 86 % ) , which of course is a largely Shia country . The same pattern characterizes opinions of Iran 's controversial president , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad : 75 % of Shia have confidence in Ahmadinejad to do the right thing in world affairs , compared with only 9 % of Christians and 5 % of Sunnis who share that view . And while roughly three-in-four ( 76 % ) Shia approve of Iran acquiring nuclear weapons , only 4 % of Christians and 7 % of Sunnis support the idea of a nuclear-armed Iran .
While these 30 Facebook pages with a self-described focus on a science-related area cover a range of topics , just 29 % of the Facebook posts from these pages had a focus or `` frame '' around information about new scientific discoveries . Some pages used a new-discovery frame in the bulk of their posts . For example , that was true of ScienceAlert , IFLScience , NASA Earth and New Scientist . But that framing was rare on other pages . Across the 30 pages , other frames were evident when researchers coded a representative sample of the posts . Fully 21 % of posts featured the practical applications of science information , relying on a `` news you can use '' frame . Another 16 % of posts were promotions or advertisements for media or events , 12 % of posts were aimed at explaining a science-related concept , and the remainder used some other frame .
The U.S. electorate this year will be the country 's most diverse ever , and that is evident in several Super Tuesday states holding primaries or caucuses on March 1 in which blacks could have a significant impact . In five of 12 Super Tuesday states , blacks account for at least 15 % of the electorate , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of 2014 census data . Black eligible voters have the largest footprint in Georgia ( 31 % ) and Alabama ( 26 % ) , while Virginia , Tennessee and Arkansas also have sizable black electorates .
More people around the world are using computers and cell phones than was the case just three years ago , and the increase is especially dramatic compared with 2002 . Internet usage has also become more widespread in recent years , and more now say they send or receive email at least occasionally . Looking across the 16 countries for which trends are available , the median percentage of people who own a cell phone has increased by 36 percentage points since 2002 . The current median is 81 % , compared with 45 % earlier in the decade . In 2007 , the median percentage owning cell phones across these 16 countries was 70 % . Computer usage has also increased considerably , although at a slower pace than cell phone ownership . Currently , across the 16 countries where trends are available the median percentage of computer users is 50 % ; in 2007 , the median was 39 % and , in 2002 , a median of 32 % said they used a computer at least occasionally .
Looking both domestically and internationally , Republicans are more concerned than Democrats about the rise of Islamic extremism . About eight-in-ten Republicans ( 82 % ) are very concerned when it comes to Islamic extremism in the world and 71 % are very concerned about the U.S. specifically ; among Democrats , about half ( 51 % ) are very concerned internationally and 46 % nationally .
There is no consensus on whether society has been too accepting of transgender people or not accepting enough . About four-in-ten adults ( 39 % ) say society has not gone far enough in accepting people who are transgender , while 32 % say society has gone too far and 27 % say it has been about right . Partisanship is at play here as well , as Republicans and Democrats express opposite views . While 60 % of Democrats say society has n't gone far enough , just 12 % of Republicans say the same . Conversely , 57 % of Republicans say society has gone too far , compared with 12 % of Democrats .
Among Latinos and Asians , the voter turnout rate in 2018 for naturalized citizens was higher than among the U.S. born . The naturalized-citizen turnout rate among Latinos was 44.2 % , higher than the 39.0 % turnout for U.S.-born Latinos . ( Naturalized citizens are immigrants who have become U.S. citizens . Latinos and Asians are the nation 's two largest immigrant groups . ) This gap between the Latino groups narrowed from 2014 , when turnout was 35.2 % and 24.2 % , respectively . For Asians , naturalized citizens had a turnout rate of 42.7 % compared with 36.7 % for those born in the U.S. Those figures are up from 29.6 % and 22.4 % in 2014 . Among all U.S. eligible voters , by contrast , the 2018 turnout rate of naturalized citizens trailed that of the U.S. born , 45.7 % to 54.2 % , a similar pattern as in recent elections .
A new Pew Research Center survey asked respondents an open-ended question ( with multiple responses accepted ) : What do you like the least about Christmas or the holiday season ? The three top responses all involve shopping or money : a third of Americans ( 33 % ) say they dislike the commercialism or materialism of the holidays ; roughly one-in-five ( 22 % ) cite the high expenses of the season or the expectation of buying gifts ; and one-in-ten ( 10 % ) mention shopping or crowded stores .
To look at these results more systematically , we created an index that combines responses from these characteristics . The index ranges from 0 to 6 , where 0 is the most negative view of Americans and 6 is the most positive view of Americans . Those with more positive views of Americans are scored as 4 or above and those with more negative views of Americans are scored as 2 or below ( 3 is considered neutral ) . We then took the percentage of people above or below 3 in each country to create a scale of perceptions of the American people .
In a Pew Research Center survey in early 2018 , around three-quarters of Americans ( 74 % ) said voting in elections was very important to what it means to be a good citizen , and around seven-in-ten said the same about paying taxes ( 71 % ) and always following the law ( 69 % ) . But Democrats and Republicans – as well as younger and older adults – did n't see eye to eye on all the traits and behaviors associated with good citizenship .
Five specific , self-identified radio formats accounted for 69 % of the 1,536 LPFM stations , four of which are religious in nature ( `` religion , '' `` Christian , '' `` religious music '' and `` Spanish/religious , '' according to data from BIA/Kelsey ) . The most common format named was `` variety '' ( 476 stations ) – which spanned such organizations as the Gourd Farming Educational Society , Northland College , and the African American Family and Cultural Center . Other format categories included `` information '' ( 36 stations ) , `` oldies '' ( 31 ) , `` alternative '' ( 29 ) , `` country '' ( 15 ) and `` ethnic '' ( 10 ) . Many stations offer a mix of locally originated programs with syndicated shows .
About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say that Republicans in the Senate will be at least somewhat fair and reasonable during the trial , with just 17 % saying they are very confident GOP senators will do this . Slightly more ( 48 % ) expect Democratic senators to be at least somewhat fair , though just 18 % say they are very confident in this . ( Note that much of this survey was fielded before the beginning of the trial and the release of the Senate rules . )
The UN has a positive international image . Across 32 surveyed countries , a median of 61 % have a positive view of the UN , while a median of just 26 % have a negative view . In three of the countries surveyed , eight-in-ten or more view the institution favorably : the Philippines ( 86 % ) , South Korea ( 82 % ) and Sweden ( 80 % ) .
We estimate that the percentage of households that are wireless only is now about 20 % , and it 's been growing at the rate of about 2 percentage points every six months .
The pattern of religious identity is another fundamental difference between the generations . Older generations identify overwhelmingly as Christian . For example , 85 % of the Silent generation identify as a member of a Christian denomination , while just 11 % say they are religiously unaffiliated ( defined as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' ) . By contrast , smaller majorities of Millennials ( 56 % ) and Gen Xers ( 70 % ) identify as Christian , while as many as 35 % of Millennials and 23 % of Gen Xers do not identify with any organized religion . Over the past seven years , the share of the U.S. population that does not identify with an organized religion has grown since 2007 . Much of this change has occurred due to generational replacement ; the youngest adults who are aging into the population are more likely to be religiously unaffiliated than the oldest adults they are replacing .
To be sure , aging — and , eventually , spousal death — do take their toll on marriage . Obviously , the longer couples remain married , the longer they are at risk of having their marriage end . In any given year , short-duration marriages are most likely to be intact . As one illustration , among men who got married for the first time between 1970 ( the year the Gores wed ) and 1974 , 89 % were still married to the same wife on their fifth anniversary , 74 % on their 10th anniversary and 65 % on their 15th anniversary . By their 20th anniversary , 58 % were married ; by their 25th , 54 % were .
Although the stereotype of unauthorized migrants is that of single adults without families coming to the United States , fewer than half of the adult men ( 2.3 million or 46 % ) are single and unattached—the rest are mostly in married couples although some are in other types of families . Among the adult women , about 750,000 , or only one in five , is single and unattached . There are 6.3 million unauthorized migrant families in 2004 ( containing the 13.9 million persons shown in the previous chart ) . Most of these families—3.7 million or 59 % —do not contain children ; that is they consist of single adults , couples , or some other combination of relatives . About half of all unauthorized families are solo adults without children ( or the `` stereotypical '' unauthorized migrant ) with 2.3 million solo male `` families '' accounting for just over one-third of the families and 740,000 solo females ; these two groups make up 80 % of the families without children . A significant share of unauthorized families can be characterized as `` mixed status '' in which there is one or more unauthorized parent and one or more children who are U.S. citizens by birth . There are 1.5 million unauthorized families where all of the children are U.S. citizens ; these families are about one-quarter of all unauthorized families and 58 % of unauthorized families with children . In addition , there are another 460,000 mixed status families in which some children are U.S citizens and some are unauthorized . About 10 % of all unauthorized families have children who are all unauthorized themselves . This group of families is `` not mixed status . '' However , it represents slightly less than one-quarter of the unauthorized families with children and only 10 % of all unauthorized families .
Roughly two-thirds of likely Republican voters in South Carolina ( 68 % ) describe themselves as conservative , and Thompson ( 20 % ) and Romney ( 19 % ) lead in this group . Giuliani has the support of 27 % among moderate and liberal GOP primary voters .
Clear majorities see cell phones , the internet and e-mail as changes for the better , and most also view specific changes such as handheld internet devices and online shopping as beneficial trends . There is greater division of opinion , however , over whether social networking sites or internet blogs have been changes for the better or changes for the worse . Most see increasing racial and ethnic diversity as a change for the better , as well as increased surveillance and security measures and the broader range of news and entertainment options . But the public is divided over whether wider acceptance of gays and lesbians , cable news talk and opinion shows , and the growing number of people with money in the stock market are good or bad trends . Reality TV shows are , by a wide margin , the least popular trend tested in the poll ; 63 % say these shows have been a change for the worse . Tattoos are also unpopular with many – 40 % say more people getting tattoos is a change for the worse , though 45 % say it makes no difference and 7 % see it as a change for the better .
A large majority of U.S. adults ( 86 % ) say there is some kind of lesson or set of lessons for mankind to learn from the coronavirus outbreak , and about a third ( 35 % ) say these lessons were sent by God . In open-ended survey responses collected by the Center in the summer , Americans pointed to practical lessons , such as wearing a mask ; personal lessons , such as remembering the importance of spending time with family and loved ones ; and societal lessons , such as the need for universal health care . Other responses were political in nature , including criticisms of both major parties and concerns about the politicization of the pandemic .
Barack Obama 's overall approval ratings have been stable over the course of 2015 . Currently about as many say they approve of the way Barack Obama is handling his job as president as say they disapprove of his job performance ( 46 % vs. 48 % ) .
But the public is divided on the core question shaping the debates in the early period of the Trump administration : Is it possible to cut back environmental regulations and still effectively protect water and air quality ? Some 49 % think it is possible to trim regulations and still protect air and water , while 47 % believe it is not possible to protect those resources with fewer regulations . These views differ widely by political party .
Mexico is where Trump gets his lowest ratings on the survey : Just 6 % in the United States ' southern neighbor have confidence in him . Last year , more than nine-in-ten Mexicans opposed Trump 's plan to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border . This year , 66 % in Mexico say relations have gotten worse over the past 12 months .
An overwhelming majority of Americans said extramarital affairs were morally unacceptable . But fewer Americans said that abortion was unacceptable ( 49 % ) , with 17 % saying abortion was morally acceptable and 23 % saying it was not a moral issue . Meanwhile , less than four-in-ten Americans are strongly opposed to homosexuality ( 37 % unacceptable ) , premarital sex ( 30 % ) , gambling ( 24 % ) , divorce ( 22 % ) and alcohol usage ( 16 % ) . For these issues , a majority of Americans said that they were either morally acceptable or not a moral issue . And when it came to the issue of contraceptive use , only 7 % said this was unacceptable .
Africans clearly want a good relationship with the U.S. , although positive relations with Beijing are also a priority . When asked whether it is more important for their country to have strong ties with the U.S. or China , the balance of opinion leans toward the U.S. in Uganda , Senegal , and Ghana , while Kenyans and South Africans are more divided . In Nigeria , 37 % say a strong relationship with China is more important , compared with just 17 % who say this about the U.S. ( the question was not asked in Egypt or Tunisia ) .
There is far less support for expanding fossil fuel energy sources . Majorities oppose expanding coal mining ( 65 % ) , hydraulic fracturing ( 60 % ) and offshore oil and gas drilling ( 58 % ) .
Overall , 49 % disapprove of the way Barack Obama is handling his job as president , while 44 % say they approve . Obama 's job rating has shown no change in recent months . In fact , views of Obama 's job performance have been steady reaching back to December of last year .
A smaller pool of employed men may not be good news for young women who are looking for a man with a job , but it could be good news for young single men . At the opposite end of the demographic split , we calculated a list of the largest metro areas that have the lowest number of employed young men for every 100 young women .
Financial security is strongly correlated with nearly every measure of political engagement . For example , in 2014 , almost all of the most financially secure Americans ( 94 % ) said they were registered to vote , while only about half ( 54 % ) of the least financially secure were registered . And although 2014 voting records are not yet available , pre-election estimates suggest that 63 % of the most financially secure were `` likely voters '' last year , compared with just 20 % of the least financially secure .
You posit that there may be more of this going on among Millennials than among older respondents . It 's an interesting observation , but we have no way of knowing from our data whether it 's true . On the general topic of racial tolerance and diversity , however , there are a few things we do know . First , all age groups in this country have grown more tolerant over time , and Millennials are the most tolerant of all , as illustrated by the accompanying chart on attitudes about interracial dating . Might there be some social desirability embedded in these responses ? Sure . But even if that 's all we 're measuring , it may be its own marker of social progress . Lip service , after all , is one of the tributes we pay to virtue .
Perhaps not surprisingly , considering the widening partisan divide across a variety of issues , Democrats and Republicans have sharply different views on this question . While eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say that whether someone is a man or a woman is determined by the sex they were assigned at birth , most Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 64 % ) take the opposite view and say a person 's gender can be different from the sex they were assigned at birth .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say social media have a mostly negative effect on the way things are going in the country today , according to a Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted July 13 - 19 , 2020 . Just one-in-ten Americans say social media sites have a mostly positive effect on the way things are going , and one-quarter say these platforms have a neither positive nor negative effect .
Overall , 39 % say it has contributed a lot to encouraging interest in science , 35 % say it has contributed some while 22 % think it has contributed not much or nothing . Nearly as many ( 38 % ) say the space program has contributed a lot to scientific advances that all Americans can use , while 34 % think it has done a lot for feelings or pride and patriotism .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that many Americans can answer at least some questions about science concepts – most can correctly answer a question about antibiotics overuse or the definition of an `` incubation period , '' for example . But other concepts are more challenging ; fewer Americans can recognize a hypothesis or identify that bases are the main components of antacids . Americans ' knowledge of specific facts connected with life sciences and earth and other physical sciences varies , of course . About eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) correctly identify that antibiotic resistance is a major concern about the overuse of antibiotics . A similar share ( 76 % ) know an incubation period is the time during which someone has an infection but is not showing symptoms .
Regardless of whether they see refugees as a threat , or whether they think they increase terrorism , crime or take jobs , Europeans overwhelmingly believe that the European Union is doing a poor job of handling the refugee crisis . Majorities in every country surveyed say they disapprove of how the EU is handling refugees , including a staggering 94 % of Greeks and 88 % of Swedes .
Muslim Americans are also more likely than the general public to say there is a lot of discrimination against black people in the U.S. About seven-in-ten U.S. Muslims ( 71 % ) say this , compared with 59 % of the overall population , according to a 2017 Pew Research Center survey .
Debates over what it means to be a `` true '' American , Australian , German or other nationality have often highlighted the importance of a person being born in a particular country . But contrary to such rhetoric , a Pew Research Center survey finds that people generally place a relatively low premium on a person 's birthplace . Only 13 % of Australians , 21 % of Canadians , 32 % of Americans and a median of 33 % of Europeans believe that it is very important for a person to be born in their country in order to be considered a true national . There are some exceptions – Hungary ( 52 % ) , Greece ( 50 % ) and Japan ( 50 % ) – where about half the public considers birthplace to be very important . But in other nations – Germany ( 13 % ) , Australia ( 13 % ) and Sweden ( 8 % ) – very few people make a strong connection between the locale of one 's birth and national identity .
As was the case in January , far more Americans say Trump 's economic policies have made U.S. economic conditions better ( 44 % ) than worse ( 23 % ) , while 30 % say they have not had much of an effect . These attitudes – like views of the economy itself – are divided by partisanship . Republicans overwhelmingly say that Trump 's policies have made the economy better ( 79 % say this ) . Just 13 % of Democrats say Trump 's policies have made conditions better , while the remainder are about equally likely to say that his policies have not had much effect ( 42 % ) or have made economic conditions worse ( 41 % ) .
While press coverage was more focused on the U.S. attorney scandal and the 15 British sailors being held in Iran this past week , Americans remained more interested in news about the current situation in Iraq . Overall , 26 % of Americans reported following news from Iraq more closely than any other topic , compared with 15 % who tracked the British sailors and 12 % who tracked the U.S. attorney scandal most closely . By comparison , both the British hostages and the U.S. attorney scandal received roughly twice as much press coverage as the situation in Iraq this past week .
While Clinton 's supporters – men and women alike – overwhelmingly say Trump has little or no respect for women ( 94 % say this ) , it is Clinton 's female supporters who are most likely to say Trump is completely lacking in respect for women . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of women who back Clinton say Trump has no respect at all for women , compared with a smaller majority ( 56 % ) among men who back her .
Yet when asked about specific policies to address the energy supply , a majority of Americans continue to support allowing more offshore oil and gas drilling in U.S. waters ( 56 % ) and more mining and drilling on federally-owned land ( 58 % ) . These opinions are largely unchanged from recent years .
In Japan , America 's overall image was already quite positive before the tsunami . Roughly two-in-three Japanese respondents ( 66 % ) expressed a favorable view of the U.S. in a spring 2010 survey by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project . But a year later , in a Pew survey conducted just weeks after the tsunami , 85 % gave the U.S. a positive rating , the highest percentage among 23 nations polled . Similarly , a September-October , 2011 survey , conducted by the Japanese Cabinet Office , found 82 % expressing a `` friendly feeling '' toward the U.S. , the highest percentage since the annual poll began in 1978 .
As voters become more polarized ideologically , fewer opt to select candidates from more than one political party when they go to the polls . According to the American National Election Study , ticket-splitting reached an all-time low in 2012 with only 13 % of voters selecting a different political party for the U.S. Senate than the U.S. House . An analysis of voters living in areas with two or three major political contests this November shows that only 12 % of registered voters say they are splitting their vote between multiple political parties . About three-quarters of registered voters ( 74 % ) in these areas say they will select candidates from the same party for all major political races in their area , known as `` straight ticket '' voting . When narrowed to those most likely to vote in the November election , about eight-in-ten voters ( 81 % ) choose a straight party ticket . They are slightly more likely to select only Republican candidates than only Democratic candidates ( 43 % to 36 % ) .
While views vary in the region on whether China acts too unilaterally in foreign affairs , its growing military power has caused concern among its Asian-Pacific neighbors . About seven-in-ten or more in Japan , South Korea , Australia and the Philippines regard China 's increasing military might as a bad thing , with that view held by 96 % in Japan and 91 % in South Korea . There is less concern in Pakistan ( 5 % ) , Malaysia ( 20 % ) , and Indonesia ( 39 % ) , although the number of people in those countries who see China 's military power as a positive thing is down from previous surveys .
Overall , 73 % of African American internet users—and 96 % of those ages 18 - 29—use a social networking site of some kind . African Americans have exhibited relatively high levels of Twitter use since we began tracking the service as a stand-alone platform , and this continues to be the case—22 % of online blacks are Twitter users , compared with 16 % of online whites . Younger African Americans in particular have especially high rates of Twitter use . Fully 40 % of 18 - 29 year old African Americans who use the internet say that they use Twitter . That is 12 percentage points higher than the comparable figure for young whites ( 28 % of whom are Twitter users ) .
About 295,000 babies were born to unauthorized-immigrant parents in 2013 , making up 8 % of the 3.9 million U.S. births that year , according to a new , preliminary Pew Research Center estimate based on the latest available federal government data . This was a decline from a peak of 370,000 in 2007 . Births to unauthorized-immigrant parents rose sharply from 1980 to the mid-2000s , but dipped since then , echoing overall population trends for unauthorized immigrants . In 2007 , an estimated 9 % of all U.S. babies were born to unauthorized-immigrant parents , meaning that at least one parent was an unauthorized immigrant .
Asked why they think 2019 will be better than 2018 , 24 % of Republicans volunteer Trump as the reason , while 20 % cite the economy . Roughly one-in-ten ( 12 % ) point to expectations around border security and immigration , including the possible expansion of the U.S.-Mexico border wall .
There are differences in the amount of online instruction parents say their children have received during the coronavirus-related closures . Some 43 % of parents say their children 's K-12 school has provided a lot of online instruction since it closed , while 35 % say the school has provided some . ( Online instruction can include online assignments , meetings with teachers or instructional videos . ) There are also differences in how much instruction parents themselves – or other adults in the household – are providing to their children during the outbreak . About seven-in-ten parents say they or another adult have provided a lot ( 25 % ) or some ( 44 % ) instruction to their children beyond what is being provided by the school .
Overall , mothers and fathers who use Facebook are equally likely to say they ever share , post , or comment on Facebook . However , mothers are more likely to do this with greater frequency . Some 76 % of mothers on Facebook say they do so `` frequently '' or `` sometimes , '' compared with 61 % of fathers who say the same .
Still , some social media users are ambivalent about seeing these types of posts or find them enjoyable . About four-in-ten say they do n't feel strongly about encountering these discussions , while a much smaller share ( 15 % ) say they like seeing lots of political posts on social media .
Scientists have , at best , mixed views about the impact of the research enterprise on four areas of government regulations . A majority of AAAS scientists ( 58 % ) say that the best scientific information guides government regulations about new drug and medical treatments at least most of the time , while about four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say such information guides regulations only some of the time or never . Views about the impact of scientific information on food safety regulations are more mixed with 46 % saying the best information guides regulations always or most of the time and a slightly larger share ( 52 % ) saying it does so only some of the time or never . Scientists are largely pessimistic that the best information guides regulations when it comes to clean air and water regulations or land use regulations : 72 % and 84 % , respectively , say this occurs only some of the time or never .
Hispanics are the only major racial or ethnic group to see a statistically significant decline in its poverty rate , according to 2013 Census Bureau figures released this week . The drop in the poverty rate among Hispanics – from 25.6 % in 2012 to 23.5 % in 2013 – contributed to the first decline in the nation 's overall poverty rate since 2006 . Hispanics also were the only group to see a decline in the number of people living in poverty ( the year-to-year changes in the overall U.S. number was not statistically different . ) From 2012 to 2013 , the number of Hispanics in poverty dropped from 13.6 million to 12.7 million , even as the Hispanic population grew by 1 million over the same time period .
Indeed , a Pew Research Center survey suggests such bipartisan efforts could find public support . Despite conventional wisdom in Washington that Republicans are free traders and Democrats are protectionists , there is no partisan divide on trade outside the Washington Beltway . Both Republicans and Democrats voice the view that trade is good for the United States . But that wo n't necessarily make passage of either trade initiative a slam dunk . Both the GOP and Democrats also agree that trade may not be good for them personally . About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of Americans say that growing trade and business ties between the U.S. and other nations are good for the country . This includes 71 % of Democrats and 68 % of Republicans . However , only one-in-five Americans think trade with other countries creates jobs . This includes 24 % of Republicans and just 19 % of Democrats . Similarly , only 17 % of the general public says trade leads to higher wages , among these are 21 % of the GOP and 14 % of Democrats . Moreover , there is a discernible partisan split in support for specific trade agreements now under negotiation . According to another Pew Research poll , more than half the American public thinks both TPP and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership ( TTIP ) , an Obama administration trade and investment initiative with the European Union , would be good for the country . But Democrats and Republicans disagree on their merits . Just 49 % of Republicans back TPP and only 44 % support TTIP . Democrats are more supportive of both TTIP ( 60 % ) and TPP ( 59 % ) .
As Americans continue to track the debate over health care reform closely , a growing minority – now 39 % – says they think health care legislation will pass this year . Just before the Feb. 25 bipartisan summit at the White House to discuss the stymied legislation , 27 % said they thought a bill would pass in 2010 . On health care , more than half ( 52 % ) still say they do not think a bill will pass this year , but that is down 10 points from just before the televised meeting of lawmakers from both parties and President Obama . Last week , Obama kept the focus on health care , pushing Congress to act quickly on Democrats ' top legislative priority .
By two-to-one ( 37 % -18 % ) , more believe the economy will be in worse shape a year from now than believe things will improve . In August 2004 , just 9 % said they expected the economy to worsen over the succeeding 12 months . That number doubled to 18 % in January , and has doubled again ( to 37 % ) .
By contrast , smaller shares of Americans who live in urban areas ( 13 % ) or the suburbs ( 9 % ) view access to high-speed internet service as a major problem in their area . And a majority of both urban and suburban residents report that this is not an issue in their local community , according to the survey , conducted Feb. 26-March 11 . ( The survey categorized Americans as urban , suburban or rural based on their own description of their community type . )
When it comes to education , sub-Saharan Africa stands out for making the biggest improvement in access to education since 1990 compared with other regions of the world . The proportion of children enrolled in primary or secondary school increased by 54 % over the past 25 years .
Economic story lines also captured the public 's attention . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the ups and downs in the stock market most closely , while another 10 % say news about the downgrade in the government 's credit rating was their top story .
About half ( 53 % ) of Latinos ages 18 to 29 and a similar share of those ages 30 to 49 ( 50 % ) say they or someone in their household has lost a job or had their pay cut because of the coronavirus outbreak . In contrast , 39 % of Latinos 50 and older say the same . Meanwhile , about half of Latinos without a college degree – 50 % with a high school degree or less and 52 % with some college experience – say they or someone in their household has lost a job or had their pay cut . By comparison , a smaller share of Latinos with a college degree ( 37 % ) say they have experienced one of these events . Even so , across all education levels , higher shares of Latinos than of the general public say someone in their household has lost their job , taken a pay cut or both because of the COVID-19 outbreak .
When asked how accurately they feel the list represents them and their interests , 59 % of Facebook users say the list very ( 13 % ) or somewhat ( 46 % ) accurately reflects their interests . Meanwhile , 27 % of Facebook users say the list not very ( 22 % ) or not at all accurately ( 5 % ) represents them .
In both North America and Europe , views of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) have generally improved over the past year . Today , roughly six-in-ten Americans hold a favorable opinion of the security alliance , up from just over half in 2016 , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Majority support for NATO has also strengthened in Canada , Germany , the Netherlands and Poland . And after a steep decline a year ago , most French again express a favorable view of the security alliance . For their part , a solid majority of Americans say the U.S. should militarily defend a NATO ally if embroiled in an armed conflict with Russia . Asked about their own country 's obligation under the same scenario , more than half in the Netherlands ( 72 % ) , Poland ( 62 % ) , Canada ( 58 % ) and France ( 53 % ) support living up to their mutual defense commitment as a member of NATO . Just 40 % of Germans back such assistance . In most countries surveyed , the more people perceive Russia as a major threat , the greater their willingness to come to a security partner 's defense .
Immigration since 1965 has swelled the nation 's foreign-born population from 9.6 million then to a record 45 million in 2015.1 ( The current immigrant population is lower than the 59 million total who arrived since 1965 because of deaths and departures from the U.S. ) 2 By 2065 , the U.S. will have 78 million immigrants , according to the new Pew Research population projections . This fast-growing immigrant population also has driven the share of the U.S. population that is foreign born from 5 % in 1965 to 14 % today and will push it to a projected record 18 % in 2065 . Already , today 's 14 % foreign-born share is a near historic record for the U.S. , just slightly below the 15 % levels seen shortly after the turn of the 20th century . The combined population share of immigrants and their U.S.-born children , 26 % today , is projected to rise to 36 % in 2065 , at least equaling previous peak levels at the turn of the 20th century .
A quarter of the public ( 25 % ) says they very closely followed the ongoing discussions in Washington last week over how to handle the federal budget deficit and reduce the national debt ; just 8 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The only week this year when the deficit debate drew substantial public interest was in early April , when a government shutdown loomed . In the April 7 - 10 News Interest survey , 47 % followed news about the threat of a shutdown very closely and 31 % followed this story most closely . Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed news about the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians very closely ; 5 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the conflict – and the response to efforts by President Obama to restart negotiations over creation of a Palestinian state – made up 5 % of coverage . Meanwhile , about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed news about Obama 's trip to Europe last week very closely . Just 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The president 's trip made up 3 % of coverage .
But public confidence has turned upward with Democrats , not Republicans . Among Democrats and those leaning to the Democratic Party , 53 % have a great deal of confidence in medical scientists to act in the public interest , up from 37 % in January 2019 . But among Republicans and those who lean Republican , 31 % express a great deal of confidence in medical scientists , roughly the same as in 2019 ( 32 % ) . As a result , there is now a 22 percentage point difference between partisan groups when it comes to trust in medical scientists . Most people believe that evidence from public health experts is influencing government policies related to the coronavirus at least a fair amount , but more think such evidence has a great deal of influence on their state 's policies ( 43 % ) than on federal policy ( 26 % ) .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 4 - 8 among 1,507 adults , including 549 Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters , finds that Mitt Romney holds a sizable lead in the race for the GOP nomination : 27 % favor Romney , while Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich are tied for second with 16 % each . Ron Paul is not far behind at 12 % . Despite Santorum 's strong showing in the Iowa caucuses , where he only lost to Romney by eight votes , Romney has been the most visible GOP candidate in recent days . In a separate survey conducted Jan. 5 - 8 , 44 % of Republican and Republican-leaning voters name Romney as the candidate they have heard the most about recently , compared with 16 % who name Santorum and 12 % Gingrich .
While the partisan divide over the nuclear agreement remains substantial , support for the deal has slipped across the board since July . Currently , 42 % of Democrats approve of the agreement , while 29 % disapprove and an identical percentage has no opinion . In July , 50 % of Democrats approved , 27 % disapproved and 22 % had no opinion . Republican support for the agreement , already low , has dropped even further ( from 13 % to 6 % ) . Independents ' support for the agreement also has fallen ( from 31 % to 20 % ) , although – as with Democrats – the share disapproving has held steady since July , at 47 % .
Europeans are by far the most dissatisfied : A median of 70 % in six countries say current economic conditions in their countries are bad . The Italians ( 88 % ) , French ( 85 % ) and Spanish ( 81 % ) are the most downbeat . Only the Germans are particularly satisfied , with 75 % believing their economy is in good shape . Similarly , Latin Americans ( median of 63 % ) say their economy is in bad shape . Brazilians ( 87 % ) and Venezuelans ( 83 % ) have particularly negative views .
The two publics have moved in opposite directions regarding defense spending , which has been a contentious issue in relations between the U.S. and its NATO allies . The share of Americans who say their European allies should increase their defense spending dropped by 6 percentage points between 2017 and 2018 , while the share saying European allies should keep their spending about the same rose 9 points . Germans , on the other hand , saw an 11-point increase in the share saying they wanted their own country to spend more on national defense .
News organizations get mixed reviews for their ability to protect the security of their employees ' communications . Among those who work for news organizations ( 589 of the 671 investigative journalists surveyed ) , half say their employer is not doing enough to protect journalists and their sources from surveillance and hacking , while about the same share ( 47 % ) says they are doing enough .
The ranks of photographers , artists and videographers have been trimmed by nearly half ( 43 % ) —from 6,171 in 2000 to 3,493 in 2012 , according to ASNE . By comparison , the number of full-time newspaper reporters and writers dropped by 32 % —from 25,593 to 17,422 . In the same period , 27 % of copy and layout editor and online producer jobs were lost , falling from 10,901 to 7,980 .
As of August , 43 % of Americans report often getting news online , just 7 percentage points lower than the 50 % who often get news on television , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in August . This gap between the two news platforms was 19 points in early 2016 , more than twice as large .
In Germany – and in several of its Western European neighbors – attitudes toward the U.S. have followed a clear pattern over the past decade and a half . President George W. Bush was not very popular at the outset of his presidency , and he grew less so over the next few years , amid widespread German opposition to key elements of his foreign policy . This in turn had a negative impact on America 's overall image in the country . President Obama , in contrast , was extremely well-regarded ( although his ratings did decline somewhat following the NSA eavesdropping scandal ) , and this coincided with an improvement in attitudes toward the U.S. Today , German confidence in Trump is low , and U.S. favorability is near where it was at the end of the Bush years .
The economy now far overshadows the war in Iraq , or any other issue , as the nation 's most important problem . Fully 61 % cite an economic concern – including gas and energy prices – as the most important problem facing the nation , up from just 34 % in January .
The 2012 data on college entry by race and ethnicity show a striking convergence : After decades of marked disparities in enrollment , about two-thirds of white , black and Hispanic high school completers all were enrolled in college . ( Enrollment among Asians continued to far outpace other groups . ) But significant differences remain in completing high school : As of the 2009 - 10 academic year , the average freshman graduation rate in U.S. public high schools was 93.5 % for Asian/Pacific Islanders , 83 % for whites , 71.4 % for Hispanics and 66.1 % for blacks .
The importance of most of these elements to Hispanic identity decreases across generations . For example , 54 % of foreign-born Hispanics say speaking Spanish is an essential part of what being Hispanic means to them , compared with 44 % of second-generation Hispanics and 20 % of third- or higher-generation Hispanics .
Looking beyond these overall recovery rates , local recycling programs vary considerably in which materials they accept and the degree to which residents must separate different materials . The Pew Research Center survey found that 59 % of the public believes that `` most types of items '' can be recycled in their community ; another 26 % characterize their options as `` some , '' and 13 % say only a few types of items can be recycled where they live . And the people who live in places that strongly encourage recycling also are more likely to say that most types of items can be recycled there .
As the 2012 presidential campaign heads toward the fall climax , no group has been the target of more electioneering appeals than America 's beleaguered middle class . The Pew Research survey finds that neither candidate has sealed the deal with middle-class adults but that President Obama is in somewhat better shape than his Republican challenger , Mitt Romney . About half ( 52 % ) of adults who self-identify as middle class say they believe Obama 's policies in a second term would help the middle class , while 39 % say they would not help , according to a survey conducted in July . By comparison , 42 % say that Romney 's election would help the middle class , while 40 % say it would not help . There is much more variance in the judgments of the middle class about the likely impact of the two candidates ' policies on the wealthy and the poor . Fully seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) middle-class respondents say Romney 's policies would help the wealthy , while just a third ( 33 % ) say they would help the poor . Judgments about Obama tilt the opposite way . Roughly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) middle-class respondents say his policies would help the wealthy , and about six-in-ten ( 62 % ) say they would help the poor . Read More
We asked all respondents whether religion is gaining or losing influence in American life , and 72 % of U.S. adults ( including 70 % of the religiously unaffiliated ) said religion is losing influence . We then asked whether this is a good thing or a bad thing , and , not surprisingly , `` nones '' were much more likely than other major religious groups to say that the declining influence of religion in American life is a good thing . The results , however , were not completely one-sided . In fact , religiously unaffiliated people who perceive religion 's influence as declining were split on whether this is a good thing or a bad thing . About a third of `` nones '' overall ( 34 % ) said it is good that religion is losing influence , while a similar share ( 30 % ) said this is bad .
The 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terror attacks topped the public 's news interest last week , but Americans also continued to closely track news about the nation 's struggling economy . About a quarter ( 27 % ) say they followed coverage of the solemn 9/11 anniversary more closely than any other news . Nearly as many ( 23 % ) say they followed news about the economy most closely . Another 13 % cite President Obama 's speech to Congress to unveil his jobs plan as their top story , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Sept. 8 - 11 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press among 1,010 adults . These two topics – the 9/11 anniversary and the economy 's troubles – also topped media coverage . News about the anniversary and developments related to terror on the home front together accounted for 18 % of coverage , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . News about the economy made up a total of 28 % of the newshole . About two thirds of that ( 19 % of all coverage ) focused on Obama 's Sept. 8 jobs speech , while 9 % focused on economic news more generally .
In the Center 's 2019 poll , 84 % of Lebanese said their country 's economic situation is bad , with half saying the economic situation is very bad . And about half ( 49 % ) said that children today will be worse off financially than their parents . In addition to widespread doubt surrounding economic conditions in general , 72 % of Lebanese said they are pessimistic that the gap between the rich and poor will improve in the future . A similar share expressed concern about the future of the labor market : 68 % said they doubt that well-paying jobs will be available in the future .
About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say they very closely followed news about the debate over whether to extend the Bush era income tax cuts ; 17 % say this was the story they followed most closely . Though the tensions between North and South Korea amounted to just 2 % of the week 's newshole , Americans took an interest in the story : 35 % say they followed this news very closely , while 16 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Continued debate in Washington about whether to end the Pentagon 's `` Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell '' policy concerning gays and lesbians in the military – including Congressional hearings and the release of a survey of military personnel – accounted for 5 % of coverage , according to PEJ . Nearly three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed this news very closely ; this was the top story for 9 % . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say they followed news about the WikiLeaks release very closely , while 7 % say they followed this story most closely . The story accounted for 16 % of coverage . About a third ( 35 % ) very closely followed news about recommendations for reducing the federal deficit , while 6 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Those stories accounted for 7 % of coverage .
Depression has become increasingly common among American teenagers – especially teen girls , who are now almost three times as likely as teen boys to have had recent experiences with depression . In 2017 , 13 % of U.S. teens ages 12 to 17 ( or 3.2 million ) said they had experienced at least one major depressive episode in the past year , up from 8 % ( or 2 million ) in 2007 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the 2017 National Survey on Drug Use and Health . One-in-five teenage girls – or nearly 2.4 million – had experienced at least one major depressive episode ( the proxy measure of depression used in this analysis ) over the past year in 2017 . By comparison , 7 % of teenage boys ( or 845,000 ) had at least one major depressive episode in the past 12 months .
Democrats outnumber Republicans among Hispanic registered voters in Florida , and this gap has widened since 2016 . This year , about 948,000 Hispanic voters are registered as Democrats ( amounting to about 38 % of the Hispanic total in Florida ) , while roughly 640,000 are registered as Republicans ( 26 % of the total ) . An additional 880,000 Hispanic Floridians are registered with no party affiliation ( 35 % of the total ) . This year 's Democratic advantage of around 308,000 Hispanic registered voters is up from an advantage of 284,000 four years ago . In 2016 , 798,000 Hispanics in Florida were registered Democrats while 514,000 were registered Republicans .
Similarly , there has been little recent change in Americans ' views of their own financial situations . About half ( 49 % ) say their finances are in excellent or good shape . A majority of Republicans ( 61 % ) say their personal financial situation is excellent or good , compared with about four-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 41 % ) .
As noted above , African Americans and Latinos are just as likely as whites to use tools such as blogs , social networking sites and online video to keep up with the workings of government . They also have very different attitudes towards the use of social media tools by government agencies and officials . Minority Americans are significantly more likely than whites to agree strongly with the statement that government outreach using tools such as blogs , social networking sites or text messaging `` helps people be more informed about what the government is doing '' and `` makes government agencies and officials more accessible '' . African Americans and Latinos are also much more likely than whites to say it is `` very important '' for government agencies to post information and alerts on sites such as Facebook and Twitter . Based on these users ' expressed attitudes , these tools may offer the ability for government agencies to reach underserved populations in a way that is not currently occurring with other online offerings .
About three-in-ten Americans ( 28 % ) paid very close attention to the Supreme Court 's decision overturning a ban on the possession of handguns in Washington , D.C. One-in-ten ( 9 % ) listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . Roughly equal proportions of Republicans , Democrats and Independents paid very close attention to this story . Overall , 5 % of the national newshole was devoted to news about the Supreme Court ruling on handguns . There was relatively little interest in Zimbabwe 's disputed elections and related violence in that country . Only 13 % followed this story very closely and just 3 % listed this as their top story of the week . The story did receive substantial coverage , especially online , accounting for 7 % of all news last week . Recent steps by North Korea to dismantle its nuclear weapons program attracted the very close attention of one-in-five Americans ( 19 % ) and 2 % listed this as the story they tracked most closely .
Many Japanese would appear unsettled by the perceived balance between emigration and immigration . Roughly six-in-ten Japanese ( 58 % ) say that people leaving their country for jobs in other nations is a problem . At the same time , an identical share believes that the government should keep immigration at its current level . Only 23 % think Japan should allow in more immigrants ; 13 % want fewer entrants from other nations .
Since the start of the government shutdown , there has been little change in overall job approval ratings for political leaders in Washington , largely because public frustrations preceded these events . Barack Obama 's job rating is , on balance , negative – 43 % approve while 51 % disapprove . This marks the first time in Obama 's presidency that the share offering a negative job rating has edged above the 50 % mark . But the balance of opinion is not substantially different from his job rating a month ago ( 44 % approved , 49 % disapproved ) or in the wake of the 2011 debt ceiling debate ( 43 % , 49 % in August 2011 ) . Just 20 % approve of how Republican leaders in Congress are handling their jobs , while a record-high 72 % disapprove . Yet , the change from a month ago , when 24 % approved and 68 % disapproved is modest , and current ratings are not far from where they have been for much of the past year . With just a 20 % approval rating , Republican leaders in Congress trail not only the president but also their Democratic counterparts ( 31 % approve ) . This difference is driven mainly by the relatively high levels of criticism from Republicans themselves . Just 42 % of Republicans approve of how GOP leaders in Congress are doing their jobs . By comparison , among Democrats , 60 % approve of Democratic congressional leaders , and 79 % approve of the president 's job performance .
Overall , the share of voters who say it is important for Americans to know who won the election within a day or two of Election Day ( 82 % ) is substantially larger than the share who say they are confident this will happen ( 50 % ) . These gaps are present among both Trump supporters and Biden supporters , though they are wider among Trump supporters . Nearly all Trump supporters ( 94 % ) say it is at least somewhat important to learn the results of the election quickly , while about three-quarters ( 73 % ) of Biden voters say the same . Only about half ( 48 % ) of Trump and Biden supporters ( 50 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident this will happen .
There were 10.5 million unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. in 2017 , representing 3.2 % of the total U.S. population that year . The 2017 unauthorized immigrant total is a 14 % drop from the peak of 12.2 million in 2007 , when this group was 4 % of the U.S. population .
Those who favor right-wing populist parties in Europe express less support for freedom of religion – with two exceptions . In most cases , Europeans who support right-wing populist parties are less supportive of freedom of religion than those who do not hold favorable views of these parties . For example , only 30 % of those who favor the Sweden Democrats party say it is very important that people can practice their religion freely , while 62 % of those with an unfavorable view of Sweden Democrats say the same . However , those who hold favorable views of right-wing populist parties in Poland and Spain are more likely to support freedom of religion than those who have unfavorable views of these parties .
Differences on security issues predominate when looking at American and German public opinion . For example , Americans and Germans take opposing views on Article 5 obligations under NATO . When asked whether their country should or should not use military force to defend a NATO ally in the event of a potential Russian attack , six-in-ten Americans say their country should defend that ally , while an equal share of Germans say their country should not .
Most Americans have access to some sort of recycling program . However , the rules , practices and community norms around recycling vary considerably from place to place , contributing to dramatically different local recycling levels . People who live in places where social norms strongly encourage recycling are more likely to be aware of recycling rules , say they have more options for recycling , and see more of the waste they generate being recycled rather than landfilled , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The survey , part of a study covering issues involving climate change , energy and the environment , found that about three-in-ten Americans ( 28 % ) say their local community 's social norms strongly encourage recycling and re-use . About a fifth ( 22 % ) say most people in their communities do n't really encourage recycling ; the remaining half live in places where , they say , norms around recycling are somewhere in the middle . A recent study conducted for the Sustainable Packaging Coalition , an industry group , estimated that 94 % of the U.S. population has some type of recycling program available to them : About 30 % have curbside collection only , 43 % have both curbside service and drop-off centers and 21 % have drop-off programs only . ( This generally aligns with findings from the EPA , which has estimated that in 2011 , there were more than 9,800 curbside recycling programs throughout the U.S. , covering more than 70 % of the population . )
Women and men in both political parties believe recent sexual harassment allegations primarily reflect widespread societal problems . Two-thirds of Americans overall ( 66 % ) attribute the allegations mainly to widespread problems in society , while just 28 % of adults attribute them mainly to incidents of individual misconduct , according to a survey conducted in November and December . While majorities of men and women and Democrats and Republicans see the allegations as reflective of societal problems , women are more likely than men to hold this view ( 71 % vs. 60 % ) . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are also somewhat more likely to say this than Republicans and Republican leaners ( 70 % vs. 61 % ) .
Half of Americans expect China 's global influence to wane after the pandemic . China 's response to the virus has been met with disapproval by many Americans , half of whom believe the country 's international reputation will take a hit as a result of the virus . About a third ( 31 % ) of Americans think China 's influence will remain the same , and roughly a fifth ( 17 % ) expect it will grow .
Singlehood sets Millennials apart from other generations . Just 26 % of Millennials are married . When they were the age that Millennials are now , 36 % of Gen Xers , 48 % of Baby Boomers and 65 % of the members of the Silent Generation were married . Most unmarried Millennials ( 69 % ) say they would like to marry , but many , especially those with lower levels of income and education , lack what they deem to be a necessary prerequisite—a solid economic foundation .
For example , the Mexico-U.S. migration corridor has been one of the world 's most heavily traveled in recent decades . Today , about 12 million people born in Mexico are living in the U.S . This number has declined in recent years as net flows have reversed , with more Mexican immigrants leaving the U.S. than entering it . Also , the number of unauthorized Mexican immigrants in the U.S. has declined by 1 million between 2007 and 2014 , even as the total number of unauthorized immigrants has stabilized at about 11.1 million .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) feel worn out by the amount of news there is , while far fewer ( 32 % ) say they like the amount of news they are getting , according to a Pew Research Center survey of more than 12,000 U.S. adults conducted in October and November of last year – the first survey in the Center 's nearly yearlong Election News Pathways project . This feeling of news fatigue has n't escaped journalists either , some of whom have voiced their exhaustion with the news cycle and the seemingly endless stream of information . Large shares of people in both political parties have news fatigue , but the feeling is more common among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . Three-quarters of Republicans say they are worn out by the amount of news there is , compared with 59 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . This 16 percentage point gap between partisans was similar in 2018 . ( Find survey data on news fatigue by party , demographics and media traits in our Election News Pathways interactive data tool . ) News fatigue is more widespread among the least engaged political news consumers . Nearly three-quarters of those who follow political and election news `` not too '' or `` not at all closely '' feel exhausted by the news ( 73 % ) , higher than the share among those who follow political news `` somewhat '' ( 66 % ) or `` very '' closely ( 56 % ) . A similar pattern emerges with engagement with politics more generally : Those who discuss politics a few times a month or less are 10 percentage points more likely to feel news fatigue than those who do so nearly every day ( 69 % vs. 59 % ) . Those who talk about politics a few times a week fall in between at 65 % . ( It should be noted that the question asked about fatigue about news generally , not specifically about political or election-related news . ) Democrats who are more engaged with news about politics and the election are the least likely to feel worn out . In fact , while majorities in all other groups feel news fatigue , Democrats who very closely follow political news are about evenly split – roughly half feel worn out ( 47 % ) , while 52 % like the amount of news there is these days . By comparison , nearly two-thirds of Republicans who very closely follow political news ( 66 % ) feel worn out .
We also see party affiliation changing in understandable ways over time , in response to major events and political circumstances . For example , the percentage of registered voters identifying as Republican dropped from 33 % to 28 % between 2004 and 2007 during a period in which disapproval of President George W. Bush 's job performance was rising and opinions about the GOP were becoming increasingly negative .
More U.S. high school students are staying in school , according to newly released data from the Census Bureau , as the national dropout rate reached a record low last year . Just 7 % of the nation 's 18-to-24 year olds had dropped out of high school , continuing a steady decline in the nation 's dropout rate since 2000 , when 12 % of youth were dropouts . The decline in the national dropout rate has been driven , in part , by substantially fewer Hispanic and black youth dropping out of school ( the non-Hispanic white dropout rate has not fallen as sharply ) . Although Hispanics still have the highest dropout rate among all major racial and ethnic groups , it reached a record-low of 14 % in 2013 , compared with 32 % of Hispanic 18- to 24-year-olds who were dropouts in 2000 . The decline in the size of the Hispanic dropout population has been particularly noteworthy because it 's happened at the same time that the Hispanic youth population is growing . The number of Hispanic 18- to 24-year-old dropouts peaked at 1.5 million in 2001 and fell to 889,000 by 2013 , even though the size of the Hispanic youth population has grown by more than 50 % since 2000 . The last time the Census Bureau counted fewer than 900,000 Hispanic dropouts was in 1987 . Among Hispanic 18- to 24-year-olds , 79 % had completed high school compared with 60 % who did so in 2000 . High school completion rates have also been rising for other racial and ethnic groups , but their rates were not at record highs in 2013 .
Among Americans , 36 % choose the United Kingdom as the most or second-most important foreign policy partner . Roughly two-in-ten say China ( 23 % ) and Canada ( 20 % ) are top partners , but Germany is chosen by only 13 % as the most or second-most important partner , in between Israel at 15 % and Mexico at 12 % . In the U.S. , political affiliation dictates who people think is the most important foreign policy partner . While both Republicans and Democrats agree that the UK is their most important partner , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are keener on Israel as a partner ( 26 % ) than Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 9 % ) . Democrats also place more emphasis on Canada and Mexico for their top foreign policy affiliate . However , views of Germany are similar among partisans in the U.S. , with both sides ranking Germany fifth on the list of most or second-most important foreign policy partners .
Americans continued to follow news about the presidential campaign more closely than any other news last week , though they also closely followed news about the price of gasoline . Nearly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say news about the candidates for president was their top story , while 17 % say they followed news about gas prices most closely . One-in-ten ( 10 % ) say they followed news about the U.S. economy more closely than any other story , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted May 24 - 27 among 1,012 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Looking at a separate measure , comparable numbers say they very closely followed news about the economy ( 33 % ) , the election ( 32 % ) and gas prices ( 32 % ) . News about the presidential election topped coverage , accounting for 19 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . News about gas prices made up just 1 % of coverage , while news about the economy overall accounted for 6 % .
Unsurprisingly all the polls show that Americans do n't want to get too involved in Ukraine 's problems with Russian encroachment , just as they have been disinclined to get drawn into other recent world trouble spots , including Syria , Egypt and Libya . This is not surprising because in record numbers , Pew Research Center surveys find Americans saying the U.S. should mind its own business and let other countries get along as best they can .
Since 2000 , black Democrats ' self-reported ideology has remained relatively stable – and moderate . Although there has been a steady growth in the overall share of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters who describe their views as liberal over the last two decades , a plurality of black Democratic voters have consistently identified themselves as moderate . In 2019 , about four-in-ten black Democratic voters called themselves moderate , while smaller shares described their views as liberal ( 29 % ) or conservative ( 25 % ) . By contrast , 37 % of Hispanic and 55 % of white Democratic voters identified as liberal .
The 55.7 % VAP turnout in 2016 puts the U.S. behind most of its peers in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , most of whose members are highly developed democratic states . Looking at the most recent nationwide election in each OECD nation , the U.S. places 30th out of 35 nations for which data is available . The highest turnout rates among OECD nations were in Turkey ( 89 % of voting-age population ) , Sweden ( 82.1 % ) , Australia ( 80.8 % ) , Belgium ( 77.9 % ) and South Korea ( 77.9 % ) . Switzerland consistently has the lowest turnout in the OECD : In 2019 federal elections , barely 36 % of the Swiss voting-age population voted . As a consequence , turnout comparisons based only on registered voters may not be very meaningful . For instance , U.S. turnout in 2016 was 86.8 % of registered voters , fifth-highest among OECD countries and second-highest among those without compulsory voting . But registered voters in the U.S. are much more of a self-selected group , already more likely to vote because they took the trouble to register themselves .
More than four-in-ten Americans ( 43 % ) say they heard a lot last week about the dramatic exit by JetBlue flight attendant Steven Slater from his plane at New York 's Kennedy Airport after an argument with a passenger . A quarter ( 25 % ) say they heard a little about how Slater had quit his job , opened the plane door and hopped on the emergency exit chute . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they heard nothing at all about this story . Fewer say they heard a lot ( 30 % ) about controversies over plans for mosques in several U.S. cities . Debate over building a mosque near the World Trade Center site in New York City continued to generate controversy this week , especially after a series of comments by President Obama about the issue over the weekend . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they heard a little about this issue , while 41 % say they had heard nothing at all . Close to four-in-ten Republicans ( 38 % ) say they heard a lot about this , compared with 28 % of Democrats ; 30 % of independents say they heard a lot as well . Just more than two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they heard a lot about the debate about changing the Constitution so that children of non-citizens born in the United States would no longer automatically be U.S. citizens . Another 37 % heard a little about this debate , while 40 % say they heard nothing at all . On this , there are no significant differences among partisans . Awareness of that story was similar to awareness of news about the arrest of a man suspected of stabbing as many as 20 people . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they heard a lot about this story , 36 % say they heard a little and 43 % say they had heard nothing at all .
As for immigration to the U.S. from Mexico , data from several sources attest to recent substantial decreases in the number of new arrivals . The inflow began to diminish in mid-decade , and has continued to do so through early 2009 , according to an analysis of the latest available population surveys from both countries . This finding is reinforced by data from the U.S. Border Patrol showing that apprehensions of Mexicans attempting to cross illegally into the United States decreased by a third between 2006 and 2008 .
There is somewhat more change among political independents than among partisans . However , 78 % of those who did not identify as Republicans or Democrats in December 2015 also did not affiliate with either party in March 2017 . Among the remaining 22 % , nearly equal shares ended up identifying as Democrats ( 12 % ) and Republicans ( 10 % ) . Among nonpartisans who leaned toward a party in December 2015 , roughly six-in-ten leaned toward the same party in March of this year . There was more movement during this period among leaners than partisans . For instance , 16 % of those who initially leaned Republican eventually called themselves Democrats ( either identified or leaned Democratic ) ; a comparable share of those who initially leaned Democratic became Republicans or Republican leaners ( 14 % ) .
Three-in-ten Americans say they followed the debate over health care reform more closely than any other major story last week . The debate was also the most reported story of the week , making up 18 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . More than two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say they followed news about the earthquake in Chile most closely , while that story accounted for 10 % of the newshole .
From February 9 to August 9 , 2009 , only a fraction of stories contained substantial references to Hispanics–just 645 out of 34,452 studied . And only a tiny number , 57 stories , focused directly on the lives of Hispanics in the U.S. , according to a media content analysis done jointly by the Project for Excellence in Journalism and the Pew Hispanic Center , both of which are projects of the Pew Research Center .
As the Islamic militant group ISIS continues to entrench itself in Syria and Iraq , and instigate terrorist attacks around the world , concerns about Islamic extremism are growing in the West and in countries with significant Muslim populations . Since 2011 , the percentage saying they are very concerned about Islamic extremism in their country has increased 38 percentage points in France , 29 points in Spain , 21 points in the United Kingdom , 20 points in Germany and 17 points in the United States .
In the new survey , the Hispanic voter groups most confident that Biden can handle the public health impact of the coronavirus outbreak include women ( 80 % ) and college graduates ( 79 % ) . By contrast , lower shares of Hispanic male voters ( 61 % ) and Hispanic voters with some college education or less ( 68 % ) say they are somewhat or very confident in Biden .
Japan and South Korea have sharply lower confidence in the U.S. president , but majorities remain favorable toward U.S. overall . Only around a quarter of Japanese respondents ( 24 % ) and 17 % of South Koreans say they are confident in the U.S. president now that Trump is in office . That represents a 71-percentage-point drop in South Korea from 2015 . And confidence among Japanese dropped 54 points between 2016 and 2017 .
The share of Americans ages 18 and older with at least some education beyond high school has risen since 2009 , according to the Census Bureau – from 55 % that year to 58 % in 2014 – though that 's a continuation of a trend that dates back to at least 2001 . But student performance at the elementary and secondary levels has n't changed much , according to data from the National Assessment of Educational Progress .
Another aspect of campaigns that is frowned upon by voters is the use of personal insults by candidates . In a race that has been punctuated by harsh personal attacks , 68 % of voters say that `` personally insulting political opponents is never fair game . '' Just 30 % say personal attacks are sometimes fair game . Majorities of both Republican ( 60 % ) and Democratic voters ( 74 % ) say that personally insulting political opponents is never fair game . Majorities of supporters of most candidates say that personal insults are `` never fair game '' but supporters of Trump are divided , with nearly half saying personal insults are sometimes fair game . Nearly as many Republican voters supporting Trump say personally insulting an opponent is sometimes fair game ( 47 % ) as say such insults are never fair game ( 51 % ) . Among Republican supporters of Cruz and Kasich , nearly two-thirds or more say personal insults are never fair game . Fully three-quarters of Democratic voters supporting Clinton ( 74 % ) or supporting Sanders ( 74 % ) say that personally insulting political opponents is never acceptable .
The goal of addressing drug addiction has increased in importance among members of both parties . Nearly half of Republicans ( 47 % ) say that dealing with addiction should be a top priority ; this is up 15 points since early last year , when only about third ( 32 % ) of Republicans prioritized this issue .
Most Americans ( 58 % ) say jobs are difficult to find where they live , while just 31 % say plenty of jobs are available . The proportion saying there are plenty of jobs available locally has remained stable since April ( 30 % ) , but has declined by 10 points since November 2007 ( 41 % ) .
The Center defined political tweeters – 31 % of all U.S. adult users with public accounts – as those who had tweeted at least five times , and at least twice about national politics , over the study period . But within this broader group , there is a subset of highly prolific political tweeters who created 10 or more tweets between June 10 , 2018 , and June 9 , 2019 , with at least 25 % of them mentioning national politics .
In the wake of President Donald Trump 's announcement that the United States would withdraw troops from Syria , the public is divided over the issue , and about two-thirds say they do not think Trump has a clear plan for dealing with the situation in the war-torn country . Overall , 43 % of Americans say withdrawing American troops from Syria would be the right decision , while 45 % say it would be the wrong decision . The new Pew Research Center survey of 1,505 U.S. adults was conducted Jan. 9 - 14 – before a Jan. 16 bombing in Syria in which 14 people were killed , including several American service members and civilians . Nearly six-in-ten Republicans and GOP-leaning independents ( 58 % ) think it would be the right decision for the U.S. to leave Syria , while 30 % say it would be the wrong decision . The balance of opinion among Democrats and Democratic leaners is roughly the reverse : Just 30 % view withdrawal as the right decision , while 60 % say it is the wrong decision .
Of the 72 people since then who have been nominated for vice president on a major-party ( or significant third-party ) ticket , most have had a fair degree of political experience on the national , or at least state , level . A third ( 24 ) were U.S. senators at the time of their nomination ; two more were former senators . Thirteen were current or former governors ; 11 were current or former U.S. representatives , including two incumbent House speakers . Two nominees , in fact , had already served as vice president when they were chosen for another go with new presidential candidates : Adlai Stevenson I in 1900 and Charles W. Fairbanks in 1916 . And one nominee , Democrat Thomas A. Hendricks , was on Samuel Tilden 's losing ticket in 1876 but won with Grover Cleveland eight years later , though he only served as vice president for nine months before dying in office .
By contrast , Clinton voters express little or no confidence in Trump to deal with major issues . And while a majority of Clinton voters ( 58 % ) say they are `` willing to give Trump a chance and see how he governs as president , '' nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say they ca n't see themselves giving Trump a chance `` because of the kind of person he has shown himself to be . '' Equally important , most Democrats would like to see their party 's leaders stand up to Trump rather than work with him . In fact , Democratic support for cooperation with the president-elect today is substantially less than GOP support for working with Obama eight years ago . Nearly two-thirds of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters ( 65 % ) say `` Democratic leaders should stand up to Donald Trump on issues that are important to Democratic supporters , even if means less gets done in Washington . '' Just 32 % want the party 's leaders to work with Trump if it means disappointing Democrats . In November 2008 – a time when voters generally felt much better about the election and its outcome – Republicans and Republican leaners were more favorably disposed to their party 's leaders working with Obama . Nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) said GOP leaders should work with Obama , while 36 % wanted them to `` stand up '' to the new president .
Although John McCain broke his post-election silence in a jokey interview with Jay Leno last week , Palin significantly overshadowed him . She was a lead newsmaker in more than 3 % of last week 's stories examined by PEJ , meaning she appeared in at least 50 % of the content of those stories . Clinton was very close behind , but McCain lagged well back , showing up as a lead newsmaker in 1 % of last week 's coverage . By week 's end , even some friendly commentators were counseling Palin to adopt a lower profile .
Of the 20 countries and territories worldwide with the highest median ages , 14 are in Europe – led by Italy , Portugal and Germany . In fact , Italy trails only Japan when it comes to the world 's highest median age and the share of those ages 60 and older .
The Army remains the largest branch of the U.S. military . In 2015 , 36 % of all active-duty military personnel were serving in the Army . The Navy and Air Force were comparable in size , each accounting for roughly a quarter of active-duty personnel . The Marine Corps made up 14 % of the active-duty military , while the Coast Guard made up 3 % .
When it comes to different kinds of information , the picture varies by the specific type . While relatively few Americans feel as if they have a lot of control over who has access to everything from their physical location to their social media posts , there are experiences in which some Americans especially feel a lack of control . Roughly half of Americans ( 48 % ) say they feel as if they have no control over who can access the search terms they use , and 41 % say the same about the websites they visit . By comparison , a smaller share of the public feels as if they do not have control over who can access their physical location .
Indeed , just 31 % of Mexican Catholics favor changes to church policy on the priesthood – that is , allowing priests to marry or women to become priests . By contrast , about half or more of Mexican-American Catholics say that priests should have the option to marry , and that the priesthood should be open to women .
Americans ages 60 and older are alone for more than half of their daily measured time – which includes all waking hours except those spent engaged in personal activities such as grooming . All told , this amounts to about seven hours a day ; and among those who live by themselves , alone time rises to over 10 hours a day , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data .
On the other hand , there is clear evidence that the general public and scientists often see science-related issues through different lenses . For instance , there is a 51-percentage-point gap between scientists and the public about the safety of eating genetically modified foods – 88 % of AAAS scientists think eating GM food is safe , while just 37 % of the public believes that . In addition , there is a 37-percentage-point gap over whether climate change is mostly caused by human activity – 87 % of scientists say it is , while 50 % of the public does .
It may sound surprising , but many of those in the poorer countries surveyed were more likely than those in richer nations to say the day was a good one . When looking at this question by national income , there is a slightly negative correlation between saying the day is a good one and per capita GDP . The U.S. is a major outlier on this measure . It has the highest GDP per capita among the countries surveyed and Americans were more likely to rate a day as particularly good than people in other rich nations . Still , in almost all these countries , the most common response to this question is that the day was just `` typical . '' Interestingly , Europeans stood out for being more likely to say the day was typical ( a median of 76 % across seven EU nations ) , with only 17 % who said the day was good . Less than three-in-ten in every European country surveyed said the day was going well . And in Asia , a median of 68 % said the day was typical , although 30 % said the day was a good one . In Japan , almost nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) said the day was a normal one .
Ratings of the nation 's overall economic conditions have changed little since the start of 2015 after increasing over the past few years . About one-in-four say the U.S. economy is `` excellent '' ( 3 % ) or `` good '' ( 24 % ) . A plurality ( 43 % ) continues to rate the economy as `` only fair , '' while three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say it is poor . Meanwhile , 53 % expect the country 's economic conditions to be the same next year . Somewhat more say the economy will be better ( 25 % ) than worse ( 20 % ) a year from now . By comparison , many more were optimistic about the future of the economy in the depths of the Great Recession in 2008 and 2009 .
Most Americans support a way for unauthorized immigrants to gain legal status if they meet certain requirements . Seven-in-ten Americans support a way for undocumented immigrants to gain legal status if certain requirements are met . Most of those who support legal status think there should be a way for unauthorized immigrants to become citizens ( 43 % overall ) , while 24 % say the path should only include permanent residency . About eight-in-ten ( 83 % ) Democrats favor a pathway to legal status compared with 53 % of Republicans . Majorities of blacks ( 75 % ) and whites ( 64 % ) continue to say undocumented immigrants should be allowed to stay in the U.S. legally if certain requirements are met . And about nine-in-ten ( 92 % ) Hispanics continue to support a pathway to legal status .
When asked about some specific ways they might have used their cellphone during their most recent social gathering , a majority of cell owners indicated they used their phone to send or read a message , take photos or videos , or receive an incoming call . Fewer used their phones for such things as checking to see if they had any alerts , placing a call , using an app , or searching or browsing the web . In all , 89 % of cellphone owners reported using their phone in at least one of these eight ways during their most recent social gathering .
The first wave of Republicans who set out to succeed Speaker John Boehner all had less experience serving in the House than any lawmaker who rose to speaker in modern times . But the candidates ' relatively short tenures put them in the company of many of their fellow House Republicans today , more than half of whom were elected in 2010 or later . Long years of service have been the norm for past speakers , most of whom had accumulated twice as much time in the House as today 's candidates before wielding the gavel . Boehner was not elected speaker until his 11th term in the House , nor was his immediate predecessor , Democrat Nancy Pelosi . Previous speakers with the most prior House experience include John McCormack ( D-Mass . ) , who was the last speaker without a high school degree , with 18 terms ; the recently deceased Jim Wright ( D-Texas ) with 17 terms ; and Joe Cannon ( R-Ill. ) , the powerful 19th-century statesman with the ubiquitous cigar , with 15 terms .
There has been no significant change in public views on the issue of gun control and gun rights following the July 20th shooting at a movie theater in Aurora , Colorado . Currently , 47 % say it is more important to control gun ownership , while 46 % say it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns . That is virtually unchanged from a survey earlier this year in April , when 45 % prioritized gun control and 49 % gun rights . Public opinion about gun control and gun rights has been divided since early 2009 . Prior to that , going back to the first Pew Research Center polling on this issue in 1993 , majorities consistently rated controlling gun ownership as a higher priority than protecting the rights of Americans to own guns .
Views of Obama 's place in history also are split along racial lines . Blacks are twice as likely as whites to say history will judge Obama as above average or outstanding : Fully 76 % of blacks and just 38 % of whites say this . While the balance of opinion among black and white Democrats is similar as to whether history will judge Obama as above average or outstanding ( 79 % and 71 % , respectively ) , black Democrats are more likely than white Democrats to say he will go down as an outstanding president ( 46 vs. 27 % ) .
For American teens , making friends is n't just confined to the school yard , playing field or neighborhood – many are making new friends online . Fully 57 % of teens ages 13 to 17 have made a new friend online , with 29 % of teens indicating that they have made more than five new friends in online venues . Most of these friendships stay in the digital space ; only 20 % of all teens have met an online friend in person .
While some homeowners do add onto their existing structures , the trend is driven largely by new construction . According to the Census Bureau , the average new single-family house completed last year was 2,657 square feet – 57 % larger than four decades earlier . While the biggest new homes are being built in the South ( an average of 2,711 square feet last year ) , home sizes have grown the most in the Northeast : a 64 % increase in average new-home size over the past four decades .
Nearly three-quarters ( 72 % ) of the public thinks religion is losing influence in American life , up from 52 % who said so in 2002 ; and most people who say religion 's influence is waning see this as a bad thing . Perhaps as a consequence , a growing share say religion should play a role in politics .
The survey finds the highest level of citizen interest in reports about the economy in nearly 20 years of Center news interest polling . A solid majority of Americans ( 56 % ) say they followed news about the economy very closely last week . In addition , 49 % say they followed news about the turmoil on Wall Street very closely .
Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are twice as likely as Republicans and Republican leaners to say they support the federal government providing all Americans with a guaranteed income if computers and robots become widely competitive with humans ( 77 % vs. 38 % ) . Democrats are also substantially more likely than Republicans to favor a federally run service program for displaced workers ( 66 % vs. 46 % ) . On other questions related to automation policies , there are smaller or no partisan differences . For example , large majorities in both parties ( 85 % of Democrats and 86 % of Republicans ) say workforce automation should be primarily limited to jobs that are dangerous or unhealthy for humans to do . And about six-in-ten in each party ( 63 % of Democrats and 61 % of Republicans ) support allowing consumers to pay extra to interact with a human when buying goods or services .
As for types of games that Americans like to play , strategy and puzzle games are the most popular among those included in the survey . About six-in-ten adults who say they play video games often or sometimes report that they typically play these types of games ( 62 % each ) . Adventure , shooter , role-playing , team sport or racing and simulation games are all somewhat less commonly played , with about half of video game players or fewer saying they typically play these types of games .
Turnout among Cuban Americans has regularly been one of the highest among Hispanic eligible voter groups . In 2016 , 58 % of Cubans voted , compared with 55 % of Dominicans , 49 % of Salvadorans , 46 % of Puerto Ricans and 44 % of Mexicans , according to an analysis of Census Bureau data . The voter turnout rate for Latino eligible voters overall was 48 % .
It turns out that people think different kinds of public and social settings warrant different sensitivities about civil behavior . For instance , fully 77 % of all adults think it is generally OK for people to use their cellphones while walking down the street and 75 % believe it is OK for others to use phones on public transit . But only 38 % think it is generally OK for others to use cellphones at restaurants and just 5 % think it is generally OK to use a cellphone at a meeting .
In recent days , however , the tone of the conversation has shifted a bit . The first two days after the video was online , when attention on Twitter was relatively modest , 77 % of the Twitter conversation was supportive compared with only 7 % that was skeptical or negative . Since March 7 , when the response picked up dramatically , the percentage of tweets reflecting skepticism or criticism rose to 17 % . Some of the positive responses came from notable celebrities whose posts were widely retweeted .
With stunning speed , the COVID-19 pandemic has swept across borders , claiming victims and shutting down economies in nations across the globe . The crisis has generated a variety of policy responses from governments , with varying degrees of success . When asked how well different countries have responded to the outbreak , Americans give high marks to South Korea and Germany . In contrast , most believe China – where the pandemic is believed to have originated – has done an only fair or poor job . Most are also critical of Italy 's response , while the public is divided over how well the United Kingdom has dealt with COVID-19 . Regarding their own country 's reaction , Americans are divided along partisan lines . Overall , 47 % of adults say the United States has done a good or excellent job of handling the outbreak , but just 27 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents hold that view , compared with 71 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents .
In 2016 , as in recent years , Millennials and Gen Xers were the most Democratic generations . And both groups had relatively large – and growing – shares of liberal Democrats : 27 % of Millennials and 21 % of Gen Xers identified as liberal Democrats or Democratic-leaning independents . The share of liberal Democrats in the public has grown . In 2016 , 21 % of Americans identified as Democrats or Democratic leaners and also as liberal . While that is only somewhat higher than a year earlier ( 19 % ) , it is the highest share dating back to 2000 . At that time , just 12 % of the public described themselves as both liberal and as Democrats or Democratic leaners . There has been little change since 2000 in other partisan and ideological categories , although the share saying they do not lean to either party is smaller today ( 11 % ) than in the early 2000s ( 17 % in 2000 ) .
About a quarter of Hispanics who cast a ballot in 2018 ( 27 % ) said they were voting in a midterm for the first time , compared with 18 % of black voters and 12 % of white voters , according to the exit polls . Meanwhile , many new voters this year were young . A majority of voters younger than 30 said they were voting in a midterm for the first time . ( Note : This item has been corrected . See details at end of post . )
Not believing in God remains an even greater potential liability for a candidate . About half of Americans ( 51 % ) said they would be less likely to vote for an atheist candidate , though this share has fallen from 63 % in 2007 .
An April 2014 poll found that extensive Washington experience was viewed more negatively than positively , more so among Republicans than Democrats . Republicans ( 36 % ) more than Democrats ( 20 % ) said they would be less likely to vote for a candidate with Washington experience . That figure rose to 56 % for Republicans and Republican leaners who agreed with the Tea Party . Almost half of Republicans and Democrats said it would n't matter to them if a candidate had been an elected official in Washington .
On April 20 , 2010 , an explosion rocked the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico , killing 11 workers and sending oil gushing into the water . By the time the well was sealed months later , about 5 million barrels of oil had spilled into the Gulf . Here are five key facts about the oil spill and its aftermath : Support for offshore drilling plummeted after the 2010 spill , but has largely recovered since . Between February and May of 2010 , the share of Americans who favored more offshore oil and gas drilling fell from 63 % to 54 % . By June , support dropped another 10 percentage points and more people opposed increased drilling ( 52 % ) than favored it ( 44 % ) . But support rose subsequent years , though not to the same heights . Last December , 56 % said they favored the government allowing more offshore drilling and 40 % opposed the practice . In that survey , about three-quarters of Republicans ( 77 % ) favored more drilling , as did 55 % of independents . Only 41 % of Democrats favored more drilling , including just one-in-three liberal Democrats ( 33 % ) .
Some lower-income teens say they lack resources to complete schoolwork at home . In a 2018 Center survey , about one-in-five teens ages 13 to 17 ( 17 % ) said they are often or sometimes unable to complete homework assignments because they do not have reliable access to a computer or internet connection . Black teens and those living in lower-income households were more likely to say they can not complete homework assignments for this reason .
When it comes to immigration policy , roughly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) continue to support a way for undocumented immigrants to gain legal status if certain requirements are met . One-in-four ( 25 % ) say they should not be allowed to stay . Most of those who say there should be a pathway to legal status support the ability for undocumented immigrants to apply for citizenship : 42 % overall say they should be able to apply for citizenship , while 25 % of the public thinks they should be able to apply for permanent residency , but not citizenship .
In the United States , 65 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents give the EU a positive rating , compared with just 39 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . This 26 percentage point difference is the largest gap between Democrats and Republicans since Pew Research Center began asking this question in 2002 .
Across Turkey , Erdogan also receives less support from more secular Muslims . Only 36 % of Muslims in Turkey who pray infrequently ( hardly ever or only during religious holidays ) have a favorable view of the Islamist-oriented PM . Meanwhile , three-fourths of Turkish Muslims who pray five times a day have a positive view of him .
Latinos1 made up a slightly larger share of the total voter turnout in the mid-term election of 2006 than they had in the mid-term election of 2002 , according to a Pew Hispanic Center analysis of new U.S. Census data . However , during those same four years the growth of the Latino vote continued to lag well behind the growth of the Latino population . This widening gap is driven by two key demographic trends : a high percentage of the new Hispanics in the population are either too young to vote or ineligible because they are not citizens ( Figure 1 ) . About 5.6 million Hispanics voted in the 2006 mid-term election , which historically draws far fewer voters than the quadrennial race for president . Latinos accounted for 5.8 % of all votes cast , up from 5.3 % in 2002 . That increase was largely a function of demographic growth .
About six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) say it 's a good thing that more women are running for U.S. Congress this year than in the past , while a third say this is neither good nor bad . Just 5 % see this as a bad thing .
The Supreme Court was viewed favorably by a 70 % majority of Americans in the August survey . The public 's views of the court have been positive in recent years – recovering from a low point in 2015 that followed controversial rulings on the Affordable Care Act and same-sex marriage . Since August 2019 , the share of Republicans with a favorable impression of the court has declined 10 percentage points ( from 85 % to 75 % ) , while Democrats ' views have become more positive , increasing from 57 % to 67 % . In views of the Supreme Court among the public overall , majorities continued to hold more favorable than unfavorable views . When asked in an online survey using the Center 's American Trends Panel , 70 % of Americans expressed a favorable opinion of the Supreme Court , while 29 % had an unfavorable view . In a contemporaneous phone survey , 62 % had a favorable opinion of the court , while 32 % viewed it unfavorably . The share offering no opinion was higher on the phone survey ( 6 % ) than on the online survey ( 2 % ) . In both survey modes , Republicans were more likely than Democrats to express favorable opinions of the court .
Since 2000 , English-speaking Asian-Americans have shown consistently higher rates of internet usage compared to whites , blacks , and Hispanics . Fully 72 % of English-speaking Asian-Americans said they were internet users 15 years ago when Pew Research began to regularly measure internet access . Whites and Hispanics would not cross this threshold until 2006 , and blacks would reach this level in 2011 . In 2014 , fully 97 % of English-speaking Asian-Americans reported being internet users . Among different racial and ethnic groups , African-Americans have seen the greatest growth rate between 2000 and today , though they are still less likely than whites and English-speaking Asian-Americans to be internet users .
Retail is one of the more seasonably variable industries when it comes to payroll jobs ( though not the only one — construction , leisure and hospitality , and education , among others , also exhibit strong seasonal employment patterns ) . Retail payrolls surge in November and December as stores hire for holiday shopping — typically jumping 3 % to 4 % between October and December . Last year , for example , retailers added 626,200 jobs in November and December , representing a 4.1 % gain . ( These are the sorts of predictable moves that are smoothed out in the seasonally adjusted jobs numbers , which generally are the ones that get the most attention . )
Both Univision and Telemundo have local affiliate stations that carry their own original news programming . In 2018 , average viewership for Univision affiliates dropped in three key time slots . Univision affiliates ' late night news ( 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. ) showed a drop of 17 % , while evening news ( 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. ) viewership for Univision affiliates saw a smaller drop of 5 % . Morning news for Univision affiliates , which has far lower viewership overall , dropped by 11 % . Average viewership for Telemundo affiliates during these time slots was more varied , with evening news dropping 6 % , late night news remaining about steady , and morning news seeing a steep decline of 70 % in average audience .
Voters report less discussion of issues during the 2014 campaign than in recent midterm elections . Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) say that there was less discussion of issues this year compared to past elections ; about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say that there was more discussion of issues than past years . This is the lowest percentage saying there was more discussion of issues than in any election since the 1998 midterm . As is often the case , members of the winning party – in this case , Republicans — have more positive views of the campaign . Nearly twice as many Republican as Democratic voters say there was more discussion of issues than in past elections ( 42 % vs. 22 % ) . In 2006 , opinions were reversed : about half of Democratic voters ( 52 % ) said there had been more discussion of issues compared with just 32 % of Republicans .
Two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say that the U.S. military effort in Iraq is going not too well or not at all well . Just 30 % say things are going very or fairly well . While perceptions of the state of affairs in Iraq have been deteriorating steadily since the summer of 2003 , the past year has seen a particularly sharp decline ; in February 2006 , 51 % said things in Iraq were going at least fairly well , 21 points higher than in the current survey . As a point of comparison , positive evaluations of progress in Iraq fell by about the same amount in the nearly three preceding years ( 24 points ) . In large part , the steep downturn over the past year reflects a crumbling of the GOP unity over progress in Iraq . As recently as a year ago , more than three-quarters of Republicans ( 77 % ) believed things were going at least fairly well in Iraq – a position most Democrats and independents then rejected . But today , a bare 51 % majority of Republicans say the situation in Iraq is going well , down 26 points from a year ago .
Overall , the national mood in Mexico is grim : 85 % are dissatisfied with the way things are going in Mexico generally , and perceptions of the national economy are not much better , with seven-in-ten believing the economic situation is bad .
Among the factors that affect household finances , the public ranks the cost of health care and the prices of food and consumer goods highest . About half of Americans say the cost of health care affects their household 's financial situation a lot ( 53 % ) , and nearly as many ( 48 % ) say the same about prices of food and consumer goods . Real estate values ( 37 % ) , gas prices ( 37 % ) and the availability of jobs ( 34 % ) are mentioned by about a third of Americans as affecting their household 's finances a lot . Only about two-in-ten say the same of the stock market ( 21 % ) or the federal budget deficit ( 22 % ) .
Compared with some of these other previous international disasters , interest in the typhoon is lower across all age groups . Among adults 65 and older , 45 % followed Haiyan very closely last week , compared to the 67 % who closely monitored the Japanese tsunami . Interest has been particularly low among adults younger than 40 , just 20 % of whom have followed the aftermath in the Philippines last week , compared to the 47 % who tracked news from Japan in 2011 .
About two-thirds ( 64 % ) say they consider the investigation into alleged Russian involvement in the 2016 election to be either very ( 42 % ) or somewhat ( 22 % ) important for the country . A smaller share ( 34 % ) says the investigation is not too ( 12 % ) or not at all ( 22 % ) important . The partisan gap in views of the investigation 's significance is quite large . Nearly nine-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 88 % ) think the investigation is important ( 64 % call it very important ) . Just 36 % of Republicans and Republican leaners call the Russia investigation very ( 18 % ) or somewhat ( 18 % ) important for the country .
One potential reason the public may place the blame for unfair coverage on news organizations more than journalists is that Americans generally believe individual journalists are capable of distancing their own views from their reporting . Six-in-ten U.S. adults say it is possible for journalists to fully set aside their own views and opinions when reporting on an issue or event , much higher than the 39 % who say they can not do this . And while Democrats are somewhat more likely than Republicans to think journalists are able to distance their views from their reporting , at least half in both parties say this ( 65 % vs. 53 % ) .
When friendships end , many teens take steps to cut the digital web that connects them to their former friend . Girls who use social media or cellphones are more likely to prune old content and connections : 53 % of social media- or cellphone-using girls have blocked someone after ending a friendship , compared with 37 % of boys .
In terms of public support , Putin and Medvedev clearly stand out from other figures on Russia 's political stage . Among the presidential candidates this spring , for example , Putin is the only one viewed favorably by a majority of Russians . Indeed , on balance , opinions of veteran politicians such as Communist Party head Zyuganov , A Just Russia 's Mironov and Liberal Democratic Party leader Zhirinovsky are negative ( 52 % , 51 % and 66 % unfavorable , respectively ) .
Overall , about half of Americans ( 49 % ) say human activity contributes a great deal to climate change , and another 30 % say human actions have some role in climate change . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) believe human activity plays not too much or no role at all in climate change .
The Gulf coast oil leak continues to be the public 's most closely followed story , but interest has declined from last week . About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they followed the story very closely , down from 57 % a week ago . Nevertheless , the Gulf oil leak was once again the public 's top news story : 42 % say it is the story they followed most closely this week ; news about the economy was a distant second , cited by just 16 % .
There is broad public support for background checks for private gun sales and sales at gun shows ( 81 % ) , laws to prevent the mentally ill from buying guns ( 76 % ) , barring gun purchases by those on government screening lists ( 71 % ) , and creating a federal database to track gun sales ( 68 % ) . About half support bans on assault-style weapons ( 52 % ) and high-capacity ammunition clips ( 50 % ) .
Most Americans following news about the WikiLeaks website 's release of a huge trove of classified documents about U.S. diplomatic relations see the revelations – which have received extensive media coverage – doing more harm than good . Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) of those paying attention to the story say they believe the release of thousands of secret State Department communications harms the public interest . About half that number ( 31 % ) say the release serves the public interest , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Dec. 2 - 5 among 1,003 adults . In August , the public was more divided about the impact of the release by WikiLeaks of thousands of classified documents about the war in Afghanistan . At that point , 47 % of those who had heard at least a little about the story said the release harmed the public interest , while 42 % said it served the public interest .
Since it was first tested on the annual policy priorities list in 2007 , the share of Americans who view dealing with global warming as a top priority has slipped from 38 % to 25 % . Democrats ( 38 % ) are far more likely than Republicans ( 11 % ) to rate this as a top priority . But the decline has occurred across party lines : In 2007 , 48 % of Democrats rated dealing with global warming as a top priority , as did 23 % of Republicans .
Fully 86 % of parents of a child age 5 to 11 say they limit the time of day or length of time their child can use screens , while eight-in-ten say they take away their child 's smartphone or internet privileges as punishment . About three-quarters of parents of a child age 5 to 11 say they check the websites this child visits or the mobile apps they use ( 75 % ) and use parental controls to restrict how much this child uses screens ( 72 % ) .
Women are more likely than men to say America 's openness to foreigners is essential ( 70 % vs. 55 % ) . In addition , there are sizable age differences , with adults under 30 more likely than older people to express this view .
In many developed nations , the average number of children that a woman has in her lifetime is now less than two , falling short of the approximate fertility necessary for a generation to `` replace '' itself . While there are many factors driving what some deem a ‘ Baby Bust ' in Europe and—to a lesser extent—the U.S. , a lack of desire for children is not among them . But when it comes to fertility , reality often does n't comport with the ideal . Among EU women ages 40 to 54 , one-third reported that the number of children they actually have is lower than their personal ideal . This gap in ideal versus actual fertility varies markedly by country . In Denmark , fully 45 % of women ages 40 to 54 reported that their actual fertility is lower than their ideal fertility , while at the other end of the spectrum , in Bulgaria just 18 % of women near the end of their childbearing years reported that the number of children that they have is lower than their ideal .
Most Republicans say Trump represents core GOP principles . Currently , 68 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say Trump represents `` the core principles and positions the Republican Party should stand for . '' There has been very little change in these views over the past year . Last October , shortly before the election , 65 % of Republican voters said Trump represented core Republican principles .
There also are race , age and educational differences in these views . Whites are divided ( 48 % favor , 48 % oppose ) , while large majorities of Hispanics ( 73 % ) and blacks ( 71 % ) oppose expanding the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border .
The decline of Christianity is continuing at a rapid pace in the U.S. Around two-thirds of U.S. adults ( 65 % ) describe themselves as Christian , according to Pew Research Center telephone surveys conducted in 2018 and 2019 . That 's down 12 percentage points since 2009 . At the same time , the share of `` nones '' – religiously unaffiliated adults who describe their religion as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' – has reached 26 % , up from 17 % a decade ago .
Muslims in Europe are most sharply distinguished from the majority populations on opinions about external issues – America , the war on terrorism , Iran , and the Middle East . European Muslims give the United States lower favorability ratings than do general publics in Europe and , in particular , they give the American people lower ratings . The war on terror is extremely unpopular among minority Muslim populations .
Despite low ratings for the EU ( just one-third of Turks have a favorable view of the institution ) , a majority in Turkey ( 55 % ) want to become a member while only 32 % oppose joining the EU . This sentiment has held relatively steady in recent years , although in 2005 , more in Turkey ( 68 % ) wanted to join the European project .
About three-quarters ( 76 % ) of the nation 's unauthorized immigrant population are Hispanics . The majority of undocumented immigrants ( 59 % ) are from Mexico , numbering 7 million . Significant regional sources of unauthorized immigrants include Asia ( 11 % ) , Central America ( 11 % ) , South America ( 7 % ) , the Caribbean ( 4 % ) and the Middle East ( less than 2 % ) . Unauthorized immigrants are spread more broadly than in the past into states where relatively few had settled two decades ago . This is especially true in Georgia , North Carolina and other southeastern states . Long-time immigrant destinations , including Florida , Illinois , New Jersey , New York and Texas , also have retained their appeal to undocumented migrants .
Half say using military force against countries that may seriously threaten the U.S. – but have not attacked it – can often ( 12 % ) or sometimes ( 38 % ) be justified , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in October . About as many ( 48 % ) say such pre-emptive use of military force can rarely ( 28 % ) or never ( 20 % ) be justified . Today , the public is somewhat more likely to express reservations about the use of pre-emptive force than it was eight years ago , when Pew Research Center last asked the question . In November 2009 , during President Barack Obama 's first year in office and amid debate about drawing down U.S. troop levels in Iraq , 52 % of Americans said the use of pre-emptive military force by the U.S. was sometimes or often justified , compared with 41 % who said it was rarely or never justified ( 8 % did not offer a view ) . The share who say pre-emptive military force is rarely or never justified is up 7 percentage points from 2009 .
The U.S. public renders a harsh judgment on the state of political discourse in the country today . Large majorities of Americans say the tone and nature of political debate has become more negative in recent years , as well as less respectful , less fact-based and less substantive . President Donald Trump is a major factor in people 's views : A 55 % majority says Trump has changed the tone and nature of political debate in the country for the worse . Fewer than half as many ( 24 % ) say he has changed it for the better , while 20 % say he has had little impact .
The share of adults in the United States who own an e-book reader doubled to 12 % in May , 2011 from 6 % in November 2010 . E-readers , such as a Kindle or Nook , are portable devices designed to allow readers to download and read books and periodicals . This is the first time since the Pew Internet Project began measuring e-reader use in April 2009 that ownership of this device has reached double digits among U.S. adults . Tablet computers—portable devices similar to e-readers but designed for more interactive web functions—have not seen the same level of growth in recent months . In May 2011 , 8 % of adults report owning a tablet computer such as an iPad , Samsung Galaxy or Motorola Xoom . This is roughly the same percentage of adults who reported owning this kind of device in January 2011 ( 7 % ) , and represents just a 3 percentage-point increase in ownership since November 2010 . Prior to that , tablet ownership had been climbing relatively quickly .
Science knowledge is strongly related to people 's views of how industry funding affects the reliability of research findings . Those with higher levels of science knowledge are less trusting of research that has received funding from industry groups than are people with medium or low knowledge levels ( 80 % with high science knowledge trust this research less vs. 55 % and 30 % , respectively ) . Men are slightly more likely than women to distrust industry-funded research ( 61 % vs. 54 % , respectively ) , as are white Americans ( 65 % ) compared with black ( 41 % ) or Hispanic ( 49 % ) Americans . People ages 50 and older are more likely than younger adults to distrust industry-funded research findings .
The action in California comes at a time when Americans ' opinions on assisted suicide are changing dramatically , according to a Gallup survey conducted in May of this year . Roughly two-thirds of U.S. adults ( 68 % ) say doctors should be allowed by law to assist patients who are terminally ill and living in severe pain to commit suicide . That 's an increase of 10 percentage points in just one year , and 17 points over two years . Pew Research Center most recently asked Americans about their views on end-of-life medical issues – including whether a person has a moral right to end his or her own life in certain circumstances – in 2013 . Most Americans said this moral right does exist in cases where a person has a disease that is incurable ( 56 % ) or when the person is suffering great pain and has no hope of improvement ( 62 % ) ; both figures have increased in recent decades .
Fully 85 % of Americans have heard or read about the virus – 38 % say they have heard or read `` a lot '' and 48 % say they have read `` a little '' about it . Those who have paid the most attention are also more likely than others to believe the virus is a threat to the population as a whole , to pregnant women and to themselves . The level of attention and concern about Zika could evolve if new outbreaks occur and news coverage of the virus potentially increases heading into the Summer Olympics Games in Brazil . By the height of the most-recent major Ebola outbreak in Africa in the fall of 2014 , Pew Research Center surveys found that 98 % of Americans had heard at least a little about the Ebola problem . Some 79 % had heard a lot about the Ebola situation at that time , compared with the 38 % who say they have heard a lot about the Zika problem now .
The high educational attainment among young Americans today is reflected in the workforce . Four-in-ten Millennial workers ages 25 to 29 had at least a bachelor 's degree in 2016 . ( Overall , about one-third – 34 % – of Millennials ages 25 to 29 had at least a bachelor 's in 2016 . ) That compares with 32 % of Generation X workers and smaller shares of the Baby Boom and Silent generations when they were the same age . Employed Millennial women ( 46 % ) are particularly likely to have a bachelor 's degree or higher in comparison with Gen X women ( 36 % ) at the same age . Millennial men in the workforce are also more likely to hold at least a bachelor 's degree than their Gen X counterparts did as young adults .
As the Republican convention gets underway , more Americans express interest in learning about what 's in the GOP platform than in the speeches by either Mitt Romney or his running mate . About half of the public ( 52 % ) is interested in learning about the Republican Party 's platform , while 44 % are interested in Romney 's acceptance speech and about the same percentage ( 46 % ) in Ryan 's convention speech .
Two key questions highlight the challenge library leaders face . First , what should libraries do with their books ? Some 30 % of those ages 16 and over think libraries should `` definitely '' move some print books and stacks out of public locations to free up more space for such things as tech centers , reading rooms , meeting rooms and cultural events ; 40 % say libraries should `` maybe '' do that ; and 25 % say libraries should `` definitely not '' do that .
The rise in online news consumption plays out across demographic groups , especially when looked at by age . The two oldest age groups saw considerable increases in online news use – 10 percentage points for those 65 and older ( 30 % vs. 20 % in early 2016 ) and 6 points among those ages 50 to 64 ( 35 % vs. 29 % ) . The pattern is in line with previous findings that show that recent growth in mobile news was driven by the oldest age groups . The decline in television as a source of news occurs both among 50- to 64-year-olds and 30- to 49-year-olds . The portion of those ages 50 to 64 who often get news on TV fell from 72 % in 2016 to 64 % today ; for 30- to 49-year-olds , this declined from 45 % to 35 % . And while 18- to 29-year-olds did not show any significant change in their use of television news from early 2016 , it was already substantially lower for this age group than for those 50 and older . Indeed , even in early 2016 this youngest age group was about twice as likely to often get news online as on TV ( 50 % vs. 27 % ) , about as large as the gap seen today ( 52 % vs. 23 % ) .
The survey shows that Americans want more coverage of a number of aspects of the 2008 campaign , especially of the candidates ' positions on the issues . Roughly three- quarters of the public ( 76 % ) say they would like to see more coverage of candidates ' positions on the issues . In addition to hearing more about policy issues , majorities want more coverage about the candidates ' debates ( 57 % ) , and their personal backgrounds and experiences ( 54 % ) . The public shows less appetite for some other aspects of campaign coverage — notably , which candidate is ahead in the polls , and the candidates ' fundraising efforts . Slightly more say they want less coverage about who is leading in the polls than say they want more coverage of this ( 46 % vs. 42 % ) . Fully 57 % say they want less coverage of candidate fundraising , compared with just 36 % who want to hear more about fundraising efforts .
Over the past few decades , Republicans and Democrats have become more and more sharply divided – not just ideologically , but also geographically . Democrats tend to do best in the nation 's urban areas , while Republicans find their strongest support in more rural areas . Now , a new Pew Research Center analysis of county-level presidential-voting data quantifies just how dominant Democrats are in big cities – and analysts say this dominance will present a tough challenge to Donald Trump this November . In 2008 Barack Obama won 88 of the 100 most populous counties ; in his re-election bid four years later he won 86 . Given Obama 's popularity among racial and ethnic minorities and young adults – who tend to cluster in big cities – that 's not altogether surprising . But Democrats ' urban dominance precedes Obama : The last time a GOP presidential candidate won more than a third of the 100 largest counties was 1988 , when George H.W . Bush took 57 of them . The disparity also is reflected in the parties ' share of the big-county vote . As recently as 1988 , they were essentially even : Bush took 49.7 % of the total vote in the 100 largest counties , while Michael Dukakis took 49.2 % . But the Republican vote share fell steeply in 1992 and never really recovered : Since then , George W. Bush was the only GOP presidential candidate to receive more than 40 % of the vote in the 100 largest counties ( in 2004 ) . Meanwhile , Democrats ' vote share in those counties has grown steadily , exceeding 60 % in Obama 's two races . Most of the biggest counties have become more presidentially Democratic over the past four decades . We took a closer look at vote patterns in the 83 counties that were among the 100 most populous in both 1976 and 2012 . In more than half ( 46 counties ) , the Democratic-Republican split shifted in the Democrats ' favor by more than 20 percentage points ; only nine became less Democratic to any degree .
UPDATE , 12:58 p.m . The new Millennials report from Pew Research shows strong support across generations for maintaining Social Security benefits at current levels ( even though half of Millennials and Gen-Xers say they do n't expect to receive any Social Security benefits when they retire ) . Debra Whitman of AARP says her group 's research has found that younger generations ( Boomers and Gen-Xers ) support Social Security because , with the erosion of defined-benefit pensions and 401 ( k ) s whipsawed by the stock market , they 're counting on it more .
About two-thirds of the public ( 64 % ) give officers a warm rating on the scale ( between 51 and 100 ) , including 45 % who rate them very warmly ( 76 - 100 ) . Fewer give a neutral rating of 50 ( 16 % ) , and just 18 % give a cold rating on the scale ( 0 - 49 ) .
Democrats are more likely than Republicans to favor an active global role for the U.S. As recently as three years ago , Republicans and Democrats were equally skeptical about the U.S. taking an active role in world affairs . But today , a majority of Democrats ( 56 % ) say it 's best for the country 's future to be active globally , up from 38 % in 2014 .
The health care debate has been among the more closely followed stories since the middle of last August , when many lawmakers held at-times raucous town hall meetings with constituents about the legislative proposals . About half ( 49 % ) said they were following these stories very closely the week of Aug. 21 - 24 , 2009 . For much of the second half of the year , the health care debate ranked as either the top or second most closely followed story of each week .
Through it all , the public 's perceptions of economic news have changed very little . Currently , 61 % say the news they are hearing about the economy is a mix of good and bad , 33 % say it is mostly bad and just 5 % say it is mostly good .
The survey also asked about perceptions of discrimination against two other groups underrepresented in the tech industry : blacks and Hispanics . ( Though some have also raised concerns about how Asians are treated in the tech industry , the survey questions were limited to perceived treatment of blacks and Hispanics . ) A majority of blacks ( 64 % ) say discrimination against blacks and Hispanics is a major problem in the tech industry , and half of Hispanics agree . Only 21 % of whites say this is a major problem . At the same time , 37 % of whites say such discrimination is n't a problem , compared with 11 % of blacks and 12 % of Hispanics . Blacks and Hispanics are also much more likely than whites to say there is more discrimination against blacks and Hispanics in the tech industry than in other industries . Four-in-ten blacks and 35 % of Hispanics say this , compared with 11 % of whites . About the survey : These are some of the findings from a survey conducted among a nationally representative sample of 4,914 adults , ages 18 and older , from July 11-Aug. 10 , 2017 . The survey , which was conducted online in English and in Spanish through GfK 's Knowledge Panel , included an oversample of employed adults working in science , technology , engineering and math-related fields . The margin of sampling error based on the full sample is plus or minus 2.7 percentage points . See the topline for exact question wording .
Roughly three-quarters of Americans ( 74 % ) think the impact of major technology companies on their own lives has been more good than bad , while 24 % say the opposite . When asked about the broader societal impact , a majority of Americans continue to feel positively , but the share saying the good outweighs the bad falls to 63 % . And 36 % of Americans say the impact of these companies on society as a whole has on balance been more bad than good .
There are also corresponding levels of pessimism about children 's financial future in each country . Roughly half or more in both Germany and the U.S. say children will be worse off financially when they grow up than their parents were . And only about third in each country say children will be better off .
A little over half of Indian adults ( 54 % ) are satisfied with the way democracy is working in their country , but a third are dissatisfied . Men are more likely than women to give Indian democracy a thumbs-up , though one-in-five women decline to offer an opinion . Satisfaction with the state of India 's democracy also differs by party affiliation : Three-quarters of BJP supporters are satisfied , compared with only 42 % of Congress adherents .
Overall , 16 % of registered voters follow candidates for office , political parties , or elected officials on a social networking site , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted during the lead-up to the 2014 midterm election . That is a 10 percentage point increase from the 2010 midterms , when only 6 % of registered voters did so . It 's not just the youngest voters getting in on the act . The increase is even more substantial among registered voters ages 30 to 49 , more than tripling from 6 % to 21 % during this time period .
A majority of the public sees societal benefit from government investment in science and engineering research . Roughly seven-in-ten adults say that government investment in engineering and technology ( 72 % ) as well as basic science research ( 71 % ) pays off in the long run while a minority says such spending is not worth it ( 22 % and 24 % , respectively ) . Positive views about the value of government investment in each area is about the same as in 2009 , though negative views that such spending is not worth it have ticked up 5 points for engineering and technology research and 6 points for basic science research .
Led by an increase in mortgage borrowing , overall household debt increased by $ 241 billion to $ 11.52 trillion during the last quarter of 2013 — 2.1 % higher than it had been for the previous three months , according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York . The last time there had been that big of an increase from quarter to quarter had been in 2007 .
In the U.S. , Republicans have consistently had more unfavorable views of China than Democrats . In the 2016 survey , for example , 63 % of Republicans held an unfavorable view of China , compared with 54 % of Democrats . But over the past decade , unfavorable sentiment has increased among supporters of both parties by more than 20 percentage points .
Perhaps the sharpest departure from today 's prevailing ethos is that , by a lopsided 59 % -to-29 % margin , Americans then said they would prefer public rather than private ownership of the electric power industry ! Even more ( 69 % ) gave a thumbs-up to a takeover of the war munitions industry . Still , even then there were limits on the appetite for government takeovers . By a 55 % -to-29 % margin , the public rejected public ownership of the railroads and split 42 % -44 % on the question of government ownership of the banks ( though a 48 % -plurality expected that sooner or later that would happen . )
Looking at employment , a similar trend emerges . In many of the cities where groups were conducted , participants expressed concerns that the declining high streets meant limited employment opportunities . Yet , in the regions where the groups took place , employment on high streets actually grew when accounting for sectors beyond retail , even while employment on high streets in retail fell in all regions but London . And while London did see growth in retail employment on high streets , it was roughly even with the city 's population growth , which also stood at 6 % between 2012 and 2017 .
Roughly six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) say one very likely negative effect that will result from gene editing is that it will increase inequality because it will only be available for the wealthy . Another 54 % express concern that , even if gene editing is appropriate for certain purposes , it will lead to a slippery slope , with some using it in morally unacceptable ways . Far fewer Americans see upsides if gene editing for babies were to become widely available . About one-in-five ( 18 % ) consider it very likely that gene editing would pave the way for new medical advances that benefit society , and 16 % have a similar degree of confidence that it would help people live longer and better quality lives . Roughly a third or more consider each of these as not too or not at all likely to transpire .
The Middle East displays relatively high rates of participation among the regions surveyed . In the home of the Arab Spring and its aftermath , a median of 53 % fall into the `` high '' category of our participation index . While Egypt stands out as having the highest participation on a number of political activities , participation is also relatively high in several of the other Middle Eastern nations surveyed , including Jordan , Lebanon and the Palestinian territories . Involvement in politics is less prevalent in Asia and the formerly communist Eastern European nations included in the survey .
Overall , nearly half ( 49 % ) of U.S. adults say increased tariffs between the U.S. and its trading partners will be bad for the country . A smaller share ( 40 % ) say the tariffs will be good for the U.S. , while 11 % say they do n't know how the tariffs will affect the country .
Latino Democrats and Republicans hold substantially different views . A majority of Democrats ( 69 % ) said their financial situation is in only fair or poor shape , compared with about half of Republicans ( 53 % ) . Latino views also differed by educational attainment , with strong majorities of those who had not completed high school ( 73 % ) and high school graduates ( 68 % ) saying their finances were in only fair or poor shape , compared with 57 % of those with some college education . Younger Hispanics tended to give their finances lower marks than older Hispanics , though the differences were relatively modest . About two-thirds of Hispanics ( 68 % ) ages 18 to 29 said their personal financial situation was in only fair or poor shape , compared with 60 % of those ages 50 and older .
Among parents under 50 , four-in-ten say they 're not likely to have more kids in the future because they just do n't want to , while 30 % point to some other reason for not expecting to have more kids , according to the survey . Among childless adults under 50 , meanwhile , around a quarter ( 23 % ) say they 're unlikely to have children in the future because they just do n't want to , while 14 % name some other reason for not expecting to have kids .
The first Congress ( 1789 - 91 ) had 65 House members , the number provided for in the Constitution until the first census could be held . Based on an estimated population for the 13 states of 3.7 million , there was one representative for every 57,169 people . ( At the time , Kentucky was part of Virginia , Maine was part of Massachusetts , and Tennessee was part of North Carolina . Vermont governed itself as an independent republic , despite territorial claims by New York . )
Just as Asian publics are the most likely to say they have made progress in recent years , they are also the most optimistic about the next few years ( regional median of 68 % optimistic ) . In particular , broad majorities of Bangladeshis , Thais , Indonesians , Chinese , Filipinos and Indians expect their life in five years to be higher on the ladder than it is today . Pakistanis are considerably less sanguine about the future , but many say they do n't know where they will stand in five years ( 32 % ) . African nations are a very close second when it comes to optimism ( regional median of 66 % ) . Broad majorities in six of the seven African countries surveyed say their life will be better in five years . The one exception is South Africa , where half are optimistic for the future . Still , just 18 % in South Africa think things will be worse .
Most adults are planning to watch either `` a lot '' ( 18 % ) or some ( 37 % ) of the Olympics , according to the new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 30-Feb. 2 among 1,003 adults . About one-in-four adults ( 26 % ) say they plan to watch `` very little '' and 19 % say they will not watch at all . Nearly one-in-four of those 50 and older ( 23 % ) plan to watch a lot , compared with 14 % of those younger than 50 .
About four-in-ten adults ( 42 % ) say they have heard `` nothing at all '' about the caucus , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 5 - 11 among 1,501 U.S. adults . Another 39 % say they have heard `` a little '' about it , while only about one-in-five Americans ( 19 % ) say they have heard `` a lot '' about the group . Democrats and Republicans are about equally likely to say they have not heard of the Freedom Caucus . However , in both parties , the caucus is better known among the more ideological . About half ( 52 % ) of moderate and liberal Republicans have heard nothing at all about the caucus , compared with just 36 % of conservative Republicans . Among Democrats , 47 % of conservatives and moderates , compared with 30 % of liberals , have heard nothing at all about the caucus .
Republicans and Democrats differ on how people across the country are reacting to the outbreak . Relatively small shares of both Republicans ( 30 % ) and Democrats ( 27 % ) say ordinary people across the country are reacting about right to the coronavirus outbreak , but partisans differ in their critique of the public 's response . Among Republicans , more say people across that country are overreacting to the outbreak than not taking it seriously enough ( 39 % vs. 31 % ) . The balance of opinion is the opposite among Democrats : Nearly half ( 48 % ) say people across the country are not taking the outbreak seriously enough , while fewer ( 25 % ) say they are overreacting .
Against the backdrop of organized school walkouts and marches calling for new legislation to address gun violence , teens see more value in some proposed measures than others . Asked to assess how effective various measures would be at preventing school shootings , 86 % of teens say that preventing people with mental illnesses from purchasing guns and that improving mental health screening and treatment would be effective , including majorities who say each of these proposals would be very effective . Roughly eight-in-ten teens ( 79 % ) say that having metal detectors in schools would be effective and 66 % say the same about banning assault-style weapons .
Candidate Donald Trump has drawn attention to the issue of illegal immigration with his proposals to force Mexico to build a wall along the southern border and force deportations of those living in the U.S. illegally . But even before he made immigration an issue , about six-in-ten ( 59 % ) Republicans said in May that their party was not doing a good job representing their views on illegal immigration . This includes about two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Republicans who opposed legal status for undocumented immigrants . More than half ( 55 % ) who did favor a path to legal status also were unhappy with the party .
The language of news media consumption is changing for Hispanics : a growing share of Latino adults are consuming news in English from television , print , radio and internet outlets , and a declining share are doing so in Spanish , according to survey findings from the Pew Research Center . Half ( 50 % ) of Latino adults say they get their news in both languages , down from 57 % in 2010 . The rise in use of English news sources has been driven by an increase in the share of Hispanics who say they get their news exclusively in English . According to the survey , one-third ( 32 % ) of Hispanic adults in 2012 did this , up from 22 % in 2006 . By contrast , the share of Hispanic adults who get their news exclusively in Spanish has decreased to 18 % in 2012 from 22 % in 2006 .
Journalists and print loyalists who are dejected about the state of the U.S. newspaper business may be comforted — or perhaps made a bit envious — by the knowledge that in at least some other countries , newspaper circulation continues to rise smartly . The chart below , from The Economist 's Graphic Detail blog , uses data from the World Press Trends database to show where circulation per 1,000 people has risen and fallen the most over the past four years .
In an April survey by Pew Research Center , conducted as part of the American News Pathways project , about six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) said they were following news about the coronavirus outbreak at both the national and local level equally . Around a quarter ( 23 % ) said they were paying more attention to news at the local level , while 15 % said they were focused more on COVID-19 news at the national level .
Penetration rates for home broadband access have risen from about 3 % in 2000 to 36 % at the end of 2005 . The rise of Web surfing for no particular purpose on a typical day has remained steady at about 20 % until the last year , when it took a sudden upswing , and only then did it match the rise of home broadband access from one-quarter to more one-third of American households .
These findings are based on a survey of 3,001 American adults ( ages 18 and older ) conducted between August 9 and September 13 , 2010 . The margin of error is +/- 3 percentage points . Interviews were conducted in English and Spanish , and the survey included 1,000 cell phone interviews . As the internet has increasingly gone mobile , laptop computers have grown in popularity . Since 2006 , the proportion of Americans who own a desktop computer has fallen slightly from 68 % to 59 % , while the proportion with a laptop computer has increased dramatically—from 30 % in April 2006 to 52 % in September 2010 .
The graph shows the percentage approving of interracial dating for each of four cohorts ( or generations ) , tracking their responses across the 13 separate waves of polling between 1987 and 2009 . Several things are evident from the graph . One is that there is an upward trend in acceptance of interracial dating in most cohorts as time passes . For instance , just 36 % of the `` Silent '' generation ( born before 1946 ) approved in the first interviews in 1987 , but by 2009 , 67 % of members of this cohort approved . Another conclusion from the graph is that each younger cohort is more supportive than the cohorts that preceded it . Baby Boomers were more supportive in 1987 than members of the Silent Generation , and remained that way throughout . Generation X ( at 82 % ) was more supportive than the Baby Boomers when it first appeared in the surveys . And the Millennial cohort is the most supportive of all .
The disparity in race and ethnicity exists across all age groups . Non-Hispanic whites account for about three-fourths ( 74 % ) of newsroom employees ages 18 to 49 , and they represent 85 % among those 50 and older . These shares are lower among workers overall . When it comes to gender , however , younger newsroom employees look like U.S. employees overall . Newsroom employees ages 18 to 29 are just as likely as workers overall to be men ( 51 % in both groups ) . Among older workers , newsroom employees are disproportionately male : About two-thirds of newsroom employees ages 30 and older are men , compared with a little over half of all U.S. workers .
The Millennial generation – those born after 1980 – were a topic of much discussion in the 2008 election . These young voters – the oldest turned 27 that year , and are turning 30 now – leaned Democratic by roughly two-to-one in the 2008 election , and their commitment to Barack Obama , and relatively high voter turnout , was a substantial factor in the election 's outcome . While these voters remain the most Democratically oriented generation today , the advantage has narrowed substantially since 2008 . Currently , 52 % of Millennial voters are Democrats or lean to the Democratic Party while 39 % are Republicans or lean to the GOP . This 13-point edge is less than half the size of the 32-point edge Democrats held three years ago .
In the realm of human rights , Canadians clearly prefer the U.S. over China . More than half of Canadians ( 54 % ) say the U.S. government respects the personal freedoms of its people , compared with only 5 % who say the same about China . Despite this , there has been a significant decline in Canadians ' views of America 's commitment to human rights in the past two years . In 2013 , fully 75 % in Canada said the U.S. government respected its own people 's rights .
Roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) of web users who get political news from The Colbert Report also get news from The Daily Show , another satirical show whose audience also skews liberal , younger and male . Many Colbert Report viewers also get their news from CNN , local TV news and NPR .
Over the same period , the share saying that too little attention is paid to race and racial issues also has risen . Today , 44 % say too little attention is paid to racial issues , while 32 % say there is too much focus on race ; 19 % say about the right amount of attention is paid to racial issues .
But as the state 's Hispanic population has grown more diverse over time , so too has its Hispanic electorate . Both Cuban Americans and Puerto Ricans have decreased as a share of Florida 's Latino electorate since 2008 , while the share of those from other origin groups has increased ( from 39 % to 44 % of eligible voters ) . The number of Venezuelan eligible voters in Florida grew by 184 % from 2008 to 2018 – the fastest growth of any Latino origin group , though they still only account for 2 % of all Hispanic eligible voters in the state . Other groups that grew considerably faster than the statewide average include Peruvians ( +109 % ) , Ecuadorians ( +106 % ) and Colombians ( +102 % ) . Again , however , each of these groups still makes up a relatively small share of the state 's Latino electorate ( 8 % or less ) .
Amid recent speculation that Mitt Romney was considering a possible third run at the executive office , the former Massachusetts governor comes in third with 74 campaign stories . Following Romney is Texas Senator Ted Cruz ( 68 ) , Kentucky Senator Rand Paul ( 67 ) and former Florida Governor Jeb Bush ( 53 ) .
Americans and most people in the Asia-Pacific countries surveyed are concerned about North Korea 's nuclear program . Half or more in each country say they are somewhat or very concerned about the nuclear program . In the Asia-Pacific region , anxiety is highest among Pyongyang 's closest neighbors – Japan , the Philippines and South Korea , where around 60 % or more say they are very concerned .
While Republicans and Democrats have been moving further apart in their beliefs , both groups have also been shrinking . Pew Research Center polling conducted so far in 2012 has found fewer Americans affiliating with one of the major parties than at any point in the past 25 years . And looking at data from Gallup going back to 1939 , it is safe to say that there are more political independents in 2012 than at any point in the last 75 years . Currently , 38 % of Americans identify as independents , while 32 % affiliate with the Democratic Party and 24 % affiliate with the GOP . That is little changed from recent years , but long-term trends show that both parties have lost support . The percentage of Americans identifying as Democrats increased from 31 % in 2002 , following the 9/11 terrorist attacks , to 36 % in 2008 . But over the past four years , Democratic affiliation has fallen to 32 % . Republican identification stood at 30 % in 2002 , but fell to 25 % in 2008 and has not recovered since then .
Differences in race and ethnicity account for some of these disparities , since urban areas have a larger share of black residents , who are typically less likely to be married than other racial groups . Even so , the marriage gap across community types remains when looking only at whites : 49 % of urban whites are married , compared with 53 % of suburban whites and 54 % of rural whites . And among blacks , those living in suburban areas are somewhat more likely to be married ( 32 % ) than those living in rural ( 27 % ) or urban ( 26 % ) areas .
Not all Latinos are aware that the Obama administration has stepped up deportations of unauthorized immigrants . In response to a question on the Pew Hispanic survey , a plurality ( 41 % ) of Latinos say that the Obama administration is deporting more unauthorized immigrants than the Bush administration . Slightly more than a third ( 36 % ) say the two administrations have deported about the same number of immigrants . And one-in-ten ( 10 % ) Latinos say the Obama administration has deported fewer unauthorized immigrants than the Bush administration .
To be fair , there are a few metrics that do n't fit this straightforward pattern of generational evolution . For example , over the course of their voting lives , older Gen Xers have tended to be more Republican than both older Boomers and younger Millennials . Also , Xers are more pessimistic than both of those larger generations that they 'll have enough money for their retirement – though some of that negativity is doubtless tied to the economic stresses of middle age .
Currently , 35 % say the U.S. should increase spending on national defense , 24 % say it should be cut back and 40 % say it should be kept about the same as today . The share favoring more defense spending has increased 12 percentage points ( from 23 % ) since 2013 .
Just 27 % of Millennials approve of Trump 's job performance , while 65 % disapprove , according to Pew Research Center surveys conducted in Trump 's first year as president . Among Gen Xers , 36 % approve and 57 % disapprove . In Obama 's first year , 64 % of Millennials and 55 % of Gen Xers approved of the way the former president was handling his job as president . Among Boomers and Silents , there is less difference in first-year views of the past two presidents ; both groups express more positive views of Trump 's job performance than do Gen Xers or Millennials ( 46 % of Silents approve , as do 44 % of Boomers ) .
Twenty senators ( 20 % ) and 89 representatives ( 20.5 % ) are veterans , according to the authoritative Vital Statistics on Congress , published by The Brookings Institution . Among the Senate 's notable veterans : Republicans John McCain ( Ariz. ) and Lindsey Graham ( S.C. ) , both strong supporters of taking action against Syria ; Iowa Democrat Tom Harkin and Kansas Republican Pat Roberts , both of whom have expressed skepticism or outright opposition ; and Massachusetts Democrat Ed Markey , who voted `` present '' on the Syria resolution Wednesday .
Palestinians are more likely to say armed struggle is the best way for their people to achieve statehood ( 45 % ) than they are to say negotiations or nonviolent resistance offer the best prospect for the creation of a Palestinian state ( 15 % each ) . Another 22 % volunteer that a combination of these three approaches would be most effective .
The nation 's debt and annual budget deficit have continued to increase in recent years , with the overall debt load exceeding the nation 's gross domestic product . Yet in both parties , reducing the budget deficit has declined as a priority since 2013 . Currently , 62 % of Republicans and 45 % of Democrats say reducing the budget deficit should be a top priority for the president and Congress .
While Trump and Biden supporters generally see their candidates in a positive light , they make distinctions about whether specific descriptions apply . Notably , an overwhelming share of registered voters who back Biden ( 84 % ) say the phrase even-tempered describes Biden , which is among the positive evaluations of the candidate among his supporters . The reverse is true when it comes to perceptions of the candidates as energetic . More than nine-in-ten Trump voters ( 93 % ) describe him as energetic ; a much smaller majority of Biden supporters ( 64 % ) say this describes Biden very or somewhat well .
People in the former East Germany earn less than their counterparts in the former West . Total compensation , gross wages and salaries , and disposable ( or after-tax ) income have long been lower in the former East Germany than in the former West , according to the government 's report . In 2017 , the most recent year for which data is available , per-capita disposable income was €19,909 per year in the former East Germany – the equivalent of about $ 22,500 based on the average euro-to-dollar exchange rate that year . By comparison , disposable income in the former West Germany was €23,283 a year , or about $ 26,300 . Put another way , people in the former East Germany earned 86 % the after-tax income of their West German counterparts in 2017 . That percentage has changed little in recent years , but is far higher than in 1991 , when per-capita disposable income in the former East was only 61 % of that in the former West .
Sen. Rand Paul also has a very positive image ( 55 % favorable ) , as does Sen. Marco Rubio ( 50 % ) . Sen. Ted Cruz is not as well known as other GOP figures , but his image is quite positive among those who are familiar with him , particularly among those who identify with the Tea Party .
Younger Americans are much less likely than their older counterparts to prioritize limiting the power and influence of several prominent foreign powers . Only about three-in-ten young people feel that the U.S. should place top priority on limiting the power and influence of Russia ( 29 % ) , Iran ( 29 % ) and North Korea ( 26 % ) . Even fewer say the same about China ( 21 % ) . By contrast , Americans 65 or older are much more likely to say that limiting the influence of these countries should be a top priority . For instance , 54 % say limiting the power and influence of Russia should be a top priority for the U.S .
If debate about O'Connor 's replacement is not framed with respect to the repeal of Roe vs. Wade , it is likely to mostly attract the attention of strong Republican conservatives and liberal Democrats . Pew 's political typology survey found that nearly six-in-ten Enterprisers ( 59 % ) say the choice is very important personally , as do roughly half of Liberals ( 49 % ) and Social Conservatives ( 47 % ) . Fewer than four-in-ten in the other typology groups attach great personal importance to the choice of the next Supreme Court justice ( see `` Beyond Red vs. Blue , '' May 10 , 2005 ) .
This report examines American teens ' digital romantic practices . It covers the results of a national Pew Research Center survey of teens ages 13 to 17 ; throughout the report , the word `` teens '' refers to those in that age bracket , unless otherwise specified . The survey was conducted online from Sept. 25 through Oct. 9 , 2014 , and Feb. 10 through March 16 , 2015 ; 16 online and in-person focus groups with teens were conducted in April 2014 and November 2014 . The main findings from this research include :
For all journalism jobs , the Indiana research shows that the median income for women was $ 44,342 in 2012 or 83 % of what a male journalist brought home ( $ 53,600 ) . This pay gap has barely changed in the last two decades—it was 81 % in 2001 and 1991 . The numbers do represent something of an improvement from 1970 when women only made 64 % of a male journalist 's median salary , or from 1981 when women earned 71 cents for every dollar paid to men . A Pew Research Center analysis of data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics found that median hourly earnings for all women in 2012 amount to 84 % of what a man makes , which is on par with Indiana 's findings for journalists .
Remittance flows decreased worldwide for a second consecutive year in 2016 , the first back-to-back decline in over three decades , according to recently released data from the World Bank . Remittances to Latin America and the Caribbean , however , rose to a record high . Globally , migrants sent an estimated $ 574 billion to their home countries in 2016 , a 1.4 % drop from 2015 . But in Latin America and the Caribbean – together making up a region where many people say economic conditions are bad – remittances rose to $ 74.3 billion , a 7.4 % increase from the previous year ( $ 69.2 billion ) . Europe was the only other region in the world to see an increase , and it was a much smaller one ( up 0.9 % ) .
Just a month before Floyd 's death , a Pew Research Center survey found that 78 % of Americans overall – but a far smaller share of black Americans ( 56 % ) – said they had at least a fair amount of confidence in police officers to act in the best interests of the public . By contrast , large majorities of white ( 84 % ) and Hispanic ( 74 % ) adults expressed at least a fair amount of confidence . These views – and the wide racial and ethnic gap in opinions – had changed little over the prior few years .
Government restrictions in 2018 were at their highest level since 2007 , when Pew Research Center began tracking these trends . The global median score on the Government Restrictions Index ( a 10-point scale based on 20 indicators ) rose to 2.9 in 2018 from 2.8 a year earlier . That was partly due to an increase in the number of governments using force – such as detentions and physical abuse – to coerce religious groups . While the index increase in 2018 was relatively small , government restrictions have grown substantially from a median score of 1.8 in 2007 . At the same time , the number of countries with `` high '' or `` very high '' levels of government restrictions has also been climbing . Most recently , 56 countries – or 28 % of all 198 countries and territories in the study – fell into one of those two categories .
Since 2015 , there have been double-digit increases in the share of each generation saying immigrants strengthen the country . Yet while large majorities of Millennials ( 79 % ) , Gen Xers ( 66 % ) and Boomers ( 56 % ) say immigrants do more to strengthen than burden the country , only about half of Silents ( 47 % ) say this .
Across the 14 countries surveyed , a median of 78 % say they have no confidence in Chinese President Xi to do the right thing when it comes to international affairs , with at least seven-in-ten in every country saying they lack confidence in Xi . Only a median of 19 % express any trust .
Cellphones are deeply embedded in the everyday experiences of most U.S. teens . Most notably , 72 % of teens say they at least sometimes check for messages or notifications as soon as they wake up ( with 44 % saying they often do this ) . And 57 % feel they often or sometimes have to respond to messages from other people immediately . Meanwhile , 31 % of teens say they lose focus in class because they are checking their cellphone – though just 8 % say this often happens to them , and 38 % say it never does . Teens across a range of demographic groups respond in similar ways to these questions about their cellphone use . However , teens ages 15 to 17 are particularly likely to say they check for messages as soon as they wake up – 49 % say they often do this , compared with 37 % of teens ages 13 to 14 .
Similarly , fewer liberal Democrats ( 35 % ) than conservative and moderate Democrats ( 53 % ) believe the CIA interrogations provided intelligence that helped prevent terrorist attacks . And on the question of whether the Senate Intelligence Committee was right to publicly release their report , 71 % of liberal Democrats call this the right decision , compared with about half of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 48 % ) .
This year , terrorism concerns reached a peak in February , shortly after the Department of Homeland Security raised the nation 's terrorist alert status to Code Orange . At the time , three-quarters of Americans said they were worried there would be soon be another attack in the U.S. ( 34 % very worried/41 % somewhat worried ) . Concerns have subsided somewhat since then ; roughly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) now say they are very ( 13 % ) or somewhat worried ( 45 % ) about the possibility of a new attack .
And the differences between right and left go beyond disagreements over politics , friends and neighbors . If they could choose anywhere to live , three-quarters of consistent conservatives prefer a community where `` the houses are larger and farther apart , but schools , stores , and restaurants are several miles away . '' The preferences of consistent liberals are almost the exact inverse , with 77 % saying they 'd chose to live where `` the houses are smaller and closer to each other , but schools , stores , and restaurants are within walking distance . ''
Fully 85 % of self-identified Catholics ages 18 - 29 said in a 2014 Pew Research Center survey that homosexuality should be accepted by society , compared with just 13 % who said it should be discouraged . Older age groups are less likely to favor acceptance . But even among Catholics ages 65 and older , 57 % say that homosexuality should be accepted .
Adults with lower incomes and less education are more likely to place a high value on a spouse or partner 's ability to provide for a family – whether that spouse is a man or a woman . Roughly eight-in-ten adults ages 25 and older ( 81 % ) with no education beyond high school say that , for a man to be a good husband or partner , being able to support a family financially is very important . Among those with some college experience 72 % say this , and the share is smaller still among those with a four-year college degree ( 62 % ) . The pattern is similar when it comes to a woman being a good wife or partner . Four-in-ten high school graduates say being able to financially support a family is very important , compared with 29 % of those with some college and 25 % of those with a bachelor 's degree or higher .
The fourth quarter of 2010 is the first period since the middle of 2008 that native-born workers have experienced positive jobs growth ( growth being measured as the change over the same quarter in the previous year ) . For foreign-born workers , the fourth quarter of 2010 marks the third successive period of jobs growth . Thus , the economic recovery now appears to be benefiting all workers , although the gains to native-born workers have been a bit later in coming .
There are only minor demographic differences in reported emotional reactions about the state of the country . Two-thirds or more across all age groups say they are angry about the state of the nation , with those ages 18 to 29 modestly more likely than older groups to say this ( 76 % report feeling angry ) . And roughly two-thirds across age groups say they are fearful about the state of the country these days . There are similarly no significant age differences in the shares saying they are hopeful or proud . About two-thirds of white ( 66 % ) , Black ( 67 % ) and Hispanic ( 68 % ) adults each say they feel fearful about the state of the country . Identical shares of white and Black adults say they feel angry ( 72 % each ) , while roughly as many Hispanic adults ( 67 % ) say this .
Last July 's military takeover wins support from a slender majority : 54 % favor it ; 43 % oppose . And while the next president is almost certain to be Abdel Fattah El-Sisi , the former general who has been the most powerful figure in the country since last year 's overthrow of the government , the new poll finds that his popularity is limited . Sisi receives a favorable rating from 54 % of Egyptians , while 45 % view him unfavorably , a more mixed review than many media reports from Egypt over the last year might suggest .
Majorities of Millennials ( those born between 1981 and 1997 ) , Generation X ( born between 1965 and 1980 ) and Baby Boomers ( born between 1946 and 1964 ) say the use of marijuana should be legal . Members of the Silent Generation ( born between 1928 and 1945 ) continue to be the least supportive of legalization : Only 35 % favor legalizing marijuana , while 64 % are opposed .
Despite the overall approval of direct talks between the two countries , the public was skeptical about whether North Korea 's leadership is serious about addressing concerns about its nuclear program . Around half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) said North Korean leaders are not serious about addressing these concerns , while 38 % thought North Korea 's leaders are serious .
When getting news online , black online news consumers are much more likely than white consumers to follow up on these stories with an action . Black online news consumers took at least one of these actions two-thirds ( 66 % ) of the time on average . That is 17 percentage points higher than whites ( 49 % ) . By comparison , online news consumers overall took a follow-up action 52 % of the time .
We took the opportunity to look back at Americans ' habits to `` Google themselves '' during the first decade of the search engine 's life and found that , after an initial increase , the activity appears to have leveled off . In a survey conducted in April and May of 2013 , we found that 56 % of internet users have used a search engine to look up their own name to see what information is available about them online , up from 22 % who had done that in 2001 ( the first time we asked the question ) .
President Obama 's expression of support for same-sex marriage proved to be the public 's top news story last week . About a quarter of Americans ( 26 % ) say they followed news about Obama 's statements on the divisive topic more closely than any other news , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted May 10 - 13 among 1,003 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Still , in the same survey , about half ( 52 % ) say Obama 's expression of support for same-sex marriage did not affect their opinion of the president . A quarter ( 25 % ) say Obama 's comments made them think less favorably of him , while 19 % say the comments made them think more favorably of the president . ( See : `` Half Say View of Obama Not Affected by Gay Marriage Decision '' . ) Obama 's comments – and their possible impact on the presidential race – also were among the week 's most covered stories , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . News specifically about Obama and his expression of support for gay marriage accounted for 14 % of coverage . More general news about the 2012 election accounted for 15 % , separating out news that focused primarily on Obama 's gay marriage comments . Altogether , campaign news accounted for 24 % of coverage , according to PEJ . Looking at the week 's other top stories , 20 % of the public says they followed news about the economy most closely while 11 % say they followed news about the 2012 campaign this closely . News about the economy accounted for 8 % of coverage .
Independents – particularly the 7 % of Americans who do n't lean toward a party – are less politically engaged than partisans . In a survey conducted shortly after the November 2018 midterm election , just a third of those who do n't lean toward either party ( 33 % ) reported voting . Democratic leaners ( 48 % ) and Republican leaners ( 54 % ) were considerably more likely to say they voted , though both groups reported lower rates of voting than partisans .
In all regions of the world , Putin 's image fares quite poorly compared with public perception of U.S. President Barack Obama . Three-quarters of Europeans have confidence in Obama to do the right thing in world affairs . Only 15 % have such faith in Putin . By more than two-to-one , publics in Africa , Asia and Latin America trust Obama more than Putin . Only in the Middle East is confidence in Putin even close to confidence in Obama . And that is not because support for Putin is very high ( 25 % ) , but rather because support for Obama is also quite low ( 36 % ) .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Nov. 18 to 29 among 12,648 U.S. adults , finds that amid a rising number of COVID-19 cases in the U.S. , the public 's outlook for the country has darkened : 71 % say they think the worst of the outbreak is still to come , up from 59 % who said this in June .
The chart sub-divides the foreign-born population in 2004 according to estimates of legal status . In 2004 , naturalized citizens represent just under one-third of the foreign-born population at 11.3 million or 32 % of the 35.7 million estimated total . Legal permanent resident aliens ( LPRs or `` legal immigrants '' ) who have not yet become citizens represent about 10.4 million or about 29 % of all immigrants living in the country . A substantial share of the foreign-born population ( just over 10 million or 29 % ) is unauthorized ( either entering clandestinely without inspection , with fraudulent documents , or overstaying visas ) , and a smaller share ( 2.5 million or 7 % ) is made up of refugees2 ( immigrants who fled persecution ) . Another 3 - 5 % of foreign-born residents are `` legal nonimmigrants , '' temporary visitors such as students and temporary workers .
Half of both the German and American public say their country should deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their own challenges . Roughly comparable proportions of Germans ( 43 % ) and Americans ( 39 % ) believe that their nation should help other countries deal with their difficulties .
American and German views on defense spending are generally similar , but there have been notable shifts in opinion in both countries over the last year . Americans have become less likely to say European allies should increase spending on national defense ( 39 % hold this view this year , down from 45 % in 2017 ) . Meanwhile , Germans have become more likely to say their country should increase defense spending ( 43 % have this opinion this year , up from 32 % in 2017 ) .
All of this adds up to generally less intense use of the internet by rural Americans than others . This shows up in several ways : the likelihood that a person goes online on a given day , the likelihood a person goes online several times on a typical day , and the number of online activities engaged in on the typical day .
About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of people who are high in religious commitment ( regardless of their particular religious affiliation ) say an implanted device for healthy people would be meddling with nature and crossing a line we should not cross . By contrast , people who are low in religious commitment ( who seldom pray or attend religious services and say religion is not important in their lives ) are much more inclined to consider brain chip implants to be in keeping with other ways that humans have tried to better themselves over time .
The partisan divide in views of government aid for the poor is wider than for other groups . Fully 82 % of Democrats say the federal government does not provide enough help for poor people , compared with just 36 % of Republicans . About as many Republicans say the government does too much for the poor ( 33 % ) as say it does too little ; 27 % say the help the government provides is about right . Democrats and Republicans also differ in their attitudes about the help the government provides to wealthy people . A large majority of Democrats ( 77 % ) say the federal government provides too much help to the wealthy . As with views about government help to the poor , Republicans are divided . Nearly half of Republicans ( 46 % ) say the federal government provides too much help for wealthy people , 42 % say it provides about the right amount , while 6 % say it does not provide enough help .
Education levels have generally risen since 1980 among the largest U.S. immigrant-origin populations . More than three-in-four immigrants ages 25 and older from India ( 77.5 % ) had a bachelor 's degree or higher in 2016 – the highest share of any top origin country – up from 66.1 % in 1980 .
Immigrants are projected to play the primary role in the growth of the American working-age population in the coming decades . The number of working-age immigrants is projected to increase from 33.9 million in 2015 to 38.5 million by 2035 , with new immigrant arrivals accounting for all of that gain . Absent these new arrivals , the total projected U.S. working-age population would fall .
Today , 76 % of the public says that prescription drug abuse is an extremely or very serious public health problem in America , compared with 63 % who said the same in 2013 . Just 22 % regard prescription drug abuse as a somewhat serious or less serious problem , down from 34 % in 2013 . Concerns about mental illness are also up slightly from 2013 . Currently , 72 % say mental illness is an extremely or very serious public health problem , compared with 67 % who said this four years ago , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Oct. 25 - 30 among 1,504 adults . Other public health concerns are largely unchanged since 2013 . Eight-in-ten Americans now say cancer is an extremely or very serious problem , while 71 % say the same for obesity ; similar shares said this in 2013 . The shares today saying that alcohol abuse ( 52 % ) , smoking ( 51 % ) and AIDS ( 47 % ) are at least very serious public health concerns are little changed from four years ago and remain lower than other problems asked about .
The government 's interest in asking about citizenship coincided with a rise in immigration to the U.S. , ultimately peaking at nearly 15 % of the population in the late 1800s and early 1900s . Immigration slowed sharply after restrictions were enacted in the 1920s , to less than 5 % of the population in 1970 . The removal of the citizenship question from census questions asked of all households came as the Census Bureau reduced the number of questions asked of all households and began asking more questions – including citizenship – of a sample of the population . Beginning in 1970 , most people filled out their own census forms , rather than having census-takers fill out the information about them .
As smartphone access has become more prevalent , a growing share of teens now report using the internet on a near-constant basis . Some 45 % of teens say they use the internet `` almost constantly , '' a figure that has nearly doubled from the 24 % who said this in the 2014 - 2015 survey . Another 44 % say they go online several times a day , meaning roughly nine-in-ten teens go online at least multiple times per day .
The current negative state of opinion stands in contrast to views measured in surveys conducted from 2009 to 2011 . For example , in May 2011 , shortly after U.S. forces killed Osama bin Laden , 62 % answered a forward-looking question by saying they thought the U.S. would definitely or probably succeed in achieving its goals .
The global middle class is also less likely to believe faith is essential for morality . This pattern is especially strong in several of the predominantly Catholic nations in the analysis . Roughly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) middle-class Argentines , for example , said it is not necessary to believe in God to be moral and have good values , while just four-in-ten lower-income Argentines held this view . There are also double-digit gaps between the middle class and poorer respondents in the Latin American nations of Mexico and Venezuela , as well as in another largely Catholic nation , Poland .
Public assessments of Donald Trump 's ability to handle several aspects of his job are more negative today than they were earlier in his term . Overall , 39 % of the public is very or somewhat confident that Donald Trump can work effectively with Congress , while 59 % are not too or not at all confident Trump can do this . In April , 46 % expressed confidence in Trump 's ability to work with Congress . Trump receives similar ratings on his ability to manage the executive branch : 42 % say they are at least somewhat confident that he can do this effectively . Last spring , half ( 50 % ) had confidence in Trump 's ability in this area .
As previous Pew Research Center surveys have shown , neither the public nor Republicans themselves have been very impressed with the field of GOP candidates . A separate survey , conducted April 12 - 15 among 1,002 adults finds negative views of the primary process itself : Just 30 % of Americans say the presidential primaries have been a good way of determining the best-qualified nominees , while 57 % say they have not . These views are comparable to opinions about the primaries in early June 2008 , when 35 % said the primary system had been a good way of determining the best-qualified nominees and 60 % disagreed .
But public trust and confidence in government , while low , is no lower than it was in the summer . Currently , about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they can trust the government in Washington to do the right thing just about always , or most of the time . That is virtually unchanged from a Gallup survey in June ( 30 % ) . While Katrina has not further weakened the public 's trust in government , there nonetheless is a striking contrast between the public 's lackluster feelings about government and the strongly positive opinions seen in the immediate aftermath of 9/11 . In October 2001 , Gallup found 60 % saying they could trust the government just about always or most of the time ­ the highest level recorded since 1968 in surveys conducted by the University of Michigan 's National Election Study .
Throughout Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's term in office , international perceptions of India have been mostly positive . Majorities in all five Asia-Pacific countries surveyed have a favorable view of India , with such positive judgement ranging from 64 % in South Korea to 57 % in Indonesia and Australia . Half the American public also shares this upbeat opinion of the world 's largest democracy .
In terms of foreign relations , Turks on balance still have negative opinions of every major world power tested , including the U.S. ( 58 % unfavorable ) , NATO ( 50 % ) and the European Union ( 49 % ) .
Education is linked to views on a variety of science issues , including the safety of genetically modified foods and nuclear power . A majority ( 57 % ) of Americans with a postgraduate degree consider genetically modified foods safe to eat , while 62 % of Americans with a high school degree or less say they are generally unsafe .
Opinions about the national economy have changed even more dramatically over this one-year period . Two-thirds now say Brazil 's once-booming economy is in bad shape , while just 32 % say the economy is good . In 2013 , the balance of opinion was reversed : a 59 % -majority thought the country was in good shape economically , while 41 % said the economy was bad . Economic ratings had been consistently positive since 2010 , when Pew Research first conducted a nationally-representative survey of Brazil .
The seven nations affected by a new executive order that prevents many of their citizens from entering the United States for the next 90 days accounted for 904,415 legal U.S. entries between fiscal years 2006 and 2015 . This group includes visitors , students and diplomats as well as refugees and new lawful permanent residents , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data . Entries from the affected countries made up 0.2 % of the more than 517 million total entries to the U.S. over the same period . ( Entries include individuals visiting the U.S. as well as new lawful immigrants and refugees . They do not include unauthorized entries or asylum seekers . One person may account for multiple entries . ) The order , signed by President Donald Trump on Jan. 27 , specified that most citizens from Iran , Iraq , Libya , Somalia , Sudan , Syria and Yemen could not enter the U.S. until security procedures used to evaluate visa applications have been reviewed . ( Diplomats and those traveling with visas for government officials are exempt from the ban . ) The president 's new order also temporarily halted the U.S. refugee resettlement program for 120 days and indefinitely banned most Syrian refugees . More than half ( 510,821 ) of the total legal U.S. entries from Iran , Iraq , Libya , Somalia , Sudan , Syria and Yemen between fiscal 2006 and 2015 were admitted using temporary non-immigrant visas . Those on temporary visas were mostly visitors to the U.S. , but could also include students , businesspeople , short-term workers and diplomats , according to an analysis of Department of Homeland Security data . Over the period in question , the number of temporary visa entries from the seven countries more than tripled : from 25,000 in 2006 to 86,000 in 2015 . ( Temporary immigrants represent events and not unique individuals ; individuals may have entered the U.S. multiple times during a fiscal year . )
The Japanese public is putting on a brave face in the wake of the historic devastation wrought by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami . Fully 58 % of the public believes that Japan will become a stronger nation as a result of the twin disasters , while about a third ( 32 % ) think the March calamities will weaken the country . This sense of promise is consistent across age , income and other major demographic groups .
Many foreign STEM graduates enrolled with OPT after executive actions in 2008 and 2016 initially doubled ( 29 months ) , then later tripled ( 36 months ) , the maximum length of employment for foreign students with STEM degrees . The number of foreign STEM graduates participating in OPT grew by 400 % since the first employment extension was introduced in 2008 .
Four years ago , a narrow majority ( 54 % ) of voters said that Islam was more likely than other religions to encourage violence among its followers . Today , the balance of opinion has shifted in the other direction , with 45 % of voters saying that Islam is more likely to encourage violence and 51 % saying it does not encourage violence more than other religions .
On every measure , registered nonvoters were less likely to report engaging in any form of political activity than both consistent and drop-off voters . At their most engaged , about 4-in-10 said they had volunteered for community service ( 42 % ) . Just 9 % said they had contributed money and 7 % reported they had worked on a political campaign . Among 2016 voters , those who missed the 2014 midterm election reported having fewer conversations with their friends about current events compared with consistent voters . More than half ( 54 % ) of consistent voters said they talk about current events or things they have heard about in the news with their friends often or very often ; 41 % of drop-off voters said the same . Similar shares of consistent voters ( 24 % ) and drop-off voters ( 19 % ) say they heard politics discussed around their houses very often or often while growing up . A much larger share of nonvoters said they heard politics discussed rarely or never ( 59 % ) than either consistent ( 38 % ) or drop-off ( 45 % ) voters .
As shown in Figure 2 , most internet users who have accessed online content have utilized only one method of access and payment ( 66 % ) .
As for median household income , the most recent data we have is for 2011 ( the Census Bureau will release 2012 numbers next week ) , but they show that after factoring in inflation , the median U.S. household income shrank 4.7 percent between 2008 and 2011 . Little surprise , then , that more than half ( 54 % ) of the people in our survey said household incomes have hardly recovered since the recession , and a scant 2 % said they 've fully recovered .
In a historic decision , the Supreme Court ruled today that the 14th Amendment requires states to license marriages between people of the same sex . The decision affects the lives of tens of thousands of Americans : About half the country 's unmarried LGBT adults said they would like to get married someday , according to a 2013 Pew Research Center survey .
Of all U.S. mothers , Hispanics are among the most likely to report that they are at home with their children . Fully 38 % of Hispanic moms living with their children younger than 18 are not working outside the home , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis .
Globally , Trump is much less popular than his predecessor . Across 37 countries we surveyed in spring 2017 , a median of just 22 % said they have confidence in Trump to do the right thing in world affairs . In contrast , 64 % expressed confidence in President Barack Obama in these same 37 nations during the final years of his presidency . And this shift in American leadership has clearly had an impact on how the world sees the U.S. : A median of 49 % now give the U.S. a favorable rating , down from 64 % in the Obama era .
Indeed , when it comes to explaining partisanship , income is not nearly as powerful a factor as the familiar stereotype would suggest . To find out its relative influence , Pew conducted a multiple regression analysis of survey data it has collected on party identification since January of 2004 . This is a statistical technique that measures the relative impact of each of a set of factors on a phenomenon of interest . The analysis ( see table ) shows that of six demographic traits often linked to partisanship , race is the most influential driver of party identification , and frequency of church attendance is the second most important . Income , union membership and gender are of roughly equal importance , and education is least important .
More than 23 million U.S. immigrants will be eligible to vote in the 2020 presidential election , making up roughly 10 % of the nation 's overall electorate – both record highs , according to Pew Research Center estimates based on Census Bureau data . The number of immigrant eligible voters has increased steadily over the past 20 years , up 93 % since 2000 . By comparison , the U.S.-born eligible voter population grew more slowly ( by 18 % ) over the same period , from 181 million in 2000 to 215 million in 2020 . 1 ( Immigrant eligible voters are those ages 18 and older born outside the United States who have gained U.S. citizenship through naturalization . )
In the continuing conflict in Iraq , Kurds frequently are mentioned alongside Iraq 's Sunni and Shia Muslim populations as one of the key groups involved in power struggles for which sharp religious divides have played a major part . But while the Kurds are a crucial part of Iraq 's political makeup , they are an ethnic group , not a distinct religious sect within Islam . Kurds are more appropriately compared to Arabs , the largest ethnic group in Iraq , or other regional ethnic groups such as Assyrians or Turkmen . Overall , Arabs represent 78 % of Iraq 's population , while Kurds are 16 % and other , smaller ethnic groups constitute the remainder , according to a 2011 Pew Research survey . In terms of religious sect , Iraqi Arabs are somewhat split : Our survey found that most said they were Shia Muslims ( 62 % ) , but about three-in-ten identified themselves as Sunnis ( 30 % ) and 6 % said they were `` just Muslim . '' Nearly all Iraqi Kurds consider themselves Sunni Muslims . In our survey , 98 % of Kurds in Iraq identified themselves as Sunnis and only 2 % identified as Shias . ( A small minority of Iraqi Kurds , including Yazidis , are not Muslims . ) But being a Kurd does not necessarily mean alignment with a particular religious sect . In neighboring Iran , according to our data , Kurds were split about evenly between Sunnis and Shias .
Since the 2008 financial crisis , perceptions about the economic balance of power in the world have been shifting . Looking at the 20 nations surveyed in both 2008 and 2013 , the median percentage naming the U.S. as the world 's leading economic power has declined from 47 % to 41 % , while the median percentage placing China in the top spot has risen from 20 % to 34 % .
The public continued to focus most closely on the outcome of the midterm elections last week as news coverage highlighted their impact on the balance of power and the agenda in Washington . A quarter of the public ( 25 % ) says they followed news about the election outcome more closely than any other major news . Nearly as many ( 20 % ) say they followed news about the still-struggling economy most closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Nov. 11 - 14 among 1,001 adults .
As the number of black players has declined , baseball has seen a rising share of white players , a trend that stands in stark contrast to the steady decline of whites as a share of the U.S. population . In 2012 , the percentage of white ballplayers ( 63.9 % ) increased to levels last seen in 1995 , when 64.5 % of players were white . Major League Baseball 's racial diversity today roughly mirrors that of the U.S. population . In 2012 , whites comprised about the same share of the population ( 63 % ) as they did in Major League Baseball , according to the most recent comparable data . By contrast , Hispanics were overrepresented in baseball , comprising 26.9 % of players and 17 % of the U.S. population . ( When Jackie Robinson debuted for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947 , less than 1 % of players were Latino . )
Nearly nine-in-ten Americans know that China was the source of dangerous toys and tainted food recently in the news . And sizeable majorities can identify House Speaker Nancy Pelosi , Russian President Vladimir Putin , and the Sunni as the branch of Islam struggling with the Shia for control in Iraq . But fewer can identify Robert Gates ' position in the administration , the approximate level of the Dow Jones Industrial Average , or the Hispanic candidate in the Democratic Party 's presidential race . Americans also were tested on their knowledge about several people in the news . Roughly three-quarters ( 74 % ) could identify the current speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives as Nancy Pelosi . Somewhat surprisingly , more Republicans than Democrats knew this ( 81 % among Republicans , 72 % among Democrats ) .
The American public is wary of technologies that could `` enhance '' human abilities . Majorities of U.S. adults say they would be `` very '' or `` somewhat '' worried about gene editing ( 68 % ) , brain chips ( 69 % ) and synthetic blood ( 63 % ) , while no more than half say they would be enthusiastic about each of these developments . Some people say they would be both enthusiastic and worried , but , overall , concern outweighs excitement . The biggest resistance is toward technologies that would result in abilities `` far above that of any human known to date '' or in permanent changes .
Most partisans say their side in politics is `` losing . '' A large majority of the public ( 67 % ) says `` their side '' in politics has been losing more often than winning in recent years on issues that matter to them . As in the past , this sentiment is less pronounced among those who support the party in control of the White House than the party out of power . Even so , more Republicans and Republican-leaning independents feel like their side has been losing more often than winning ( 53 % to 44 % ) .
Presidential job approval ratings from Ike to Obama Our January 2016 blog post looked at Pew Research Center presidential approval data going back to Bill Clinton , and Gallup data going back to Dwight Eisenhower . These ratings reflect how the public 's views of presidents have become more politically polarized , as well as how key events in U.S. history have helped shape positive and negative views of our commanders in chief .
The Pew Research Center 's biennial media attitudes survey , conducted July 17 - 21 , 2013 , among 1,480 adults , finds that 50 % of the public now cites the internet as a main source for national and international news , up from 43 % in 2011 . Television ( 69 % ) remains the public 's top source for news . Far fewer cite newspapers ( 28 % ) or radio ( 23 % ) as their main source . ( Respondents were allowed to name up to two sources . ) The current media landscape is starkly different than in 2001 , when 45 % said newspapers were their main source for news and just 13 % cited the internet . The percentage turning to television for news has changed little over this same period of time .
Around three-fourths of Americans ( 76 % ) are aware that U.S. energy production has increased over the past 20 years . And large majorities of Americans favor expanding at least two types of renewable sources to provide energy : solar panel ( 89 % ) and wind turbine ( 85 % ) facilities . Fewer than half of Americans support more hydraulic fracturing or `` fracking '' ( 39 % ) , offshore oil and gas drilling ( 39 % ) or coal mining ( 37 % ) ; 44 % support more nuclear power plants . These figures are in keeping with the findings of a 2016 Pew Research Center survey .
Nearly eight-in-ten Republicans and leaners ( 77 % ) have a favorable view of the GOP , little changed since the beginning of the year . Democrats view the GOP less favorably now ( 12 % ) than in January ( 23 % ) . Fully three-quarters of Democrats ( 75 % ) rate their party positively today , up slightly from April ( 70 % ) . Republicans view the Democratic Party less favorably today ( 11 % ) than they did in January ( 23 % ) .
The internet is slowly closing in on television as Americans ' main source of national and international news . Currently , 41 % say they get most of their news about national and international news from the internet , which is little changed over the past two years but up 17 points since 2007 . Television remains the most widely used source for national and international news – 66 % of Americans say it is their main source of news – but that is down from 74 % three years ago and 82 % as recently as 2002 . The national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Dec. 1 - 5 , 2010 among 1,500 adults reached on cell phones and landlines , finds that more people continue to cite the internet than newspapers as their main source of news , reflecting both the growth of the internet , and the gradual decline in newspaper readership ( from 34 % in 2007 to 31 % now ) . The proportion citing radio as their main source of national and international news has remained relatively stable in recent years ; currently , 16 % say it is their main source .
About three-quarters ( 76 % ) of people in China say air pollution is a big problem , including 35 % who regard it as a very big problem , according to our spring 2015 global survey . About the same number of Chinese ( 75 % ) say water pollution is a very or moderately big problem , and of 15 issues tested , both rank among the public 's top concerns .
At the same time , most Hispanics ( 56 % ) say the U.S. does not have a responsibility to take in asylum seekers from El Salvador , Guatemala and Honduras . About 39 % say the U.S. does have this responsibility .
With this increase , the number of those using a search engine on a typical day is pulling ever closer to the 60 % of internet users who use email , arguably the internet 's all-time killer app , on a typical day .1 Underscoring the dramatic increase over time , the percentage of internet users who search on a typical day grew 69 % from January 2002 , when the Pew Internet & American Life Project first tracked this activity , to May 2008 , when the current data were collected . During the same six-year time period , the use of email on a typical day rose from 52 % to 60 % , for a growth rate of just 15 % . These new figures propel search further out of the pack , well ahead of other popular internet activities , such as checking the news , which 39 % of internet users do on a typical day , or checking the weather , which 30 % do on a typical day . This chart shows the percentage of internet users who did these activities `` yesterday , '' which in a tracking survey like this one yields a picture of the `` typical day '' online . For most people the average day includes lots of emails ( 60 % of internet users ) , general searches ( 49 % ) , and news reading ( 39 % ) if they are online at all ( 30 % of internet users are offline on a typical day ) .
The U.S. unauthorized immigrant population – 11.1 million in 2014 – has stabilized since the end of the Great Recession , as the number from Mexico declined but the total from other regions of the world increased , according to new Pew Research Center estimates based on government data .
Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , women ( 48 % ) are now more likely than men ( 39 % ) to rate the party positively in standing up for its traditional positions ; there are no significant gender differences in Republicans ' views of their party 's advocacy of its traditional positions . In addition , black and Hispanic Democrats are more likely than whites to say the Democratic Party is doing an excellent or good job in standing up for its traditional positions . Liberal Democrats are less positive about how their party stands up for traditional positions than are the party 's conservatives and moderates . Four-in-ten liberal Democrats say the party does well in promoting the party 's traditional positions , compared with 49 % of conservative and moderate Democrats .
Throughout the Bush presidency , Republicans nationwide have expressed far more satisfaction than Democrats with their party 's performance in standing up for its traditional positions . But over the past two years , Republicans have become increasingly frustrated with their party . As a result , for the first time in more than six years , as many Democrats as Republicans give their party good marks for standing up for its traditional positions ( 43 % of Democrats/42 % of Republicans ) . The last time a majority of Democrats and independents who lean Democratic gave their party positive marks for standing up for traditional party positions was during the final months of the Clinton administration ( 63 % in September 2000 ) . During the past six years fewer than half of Democrats and Democratic leaners felt the party was performing well in this regard , reaching an all-time low of 33 % in March 2005 . Democratic ratings have recovered somewhat from that low point ­ today 43 % say the party is performing well on its traditional agenda , up from just 34 % this June .
As has been the case through much of Bush 's presidency ­ and in stark contrast to the Clinton years ­ public views of the economy are deeply split along political lines . Republicans generally see an economy that is thriving ; 56 % judge it as excellent or good . Democrats and independents see it much more negatively ; just 28 % of independents and 23 % of Democrats say the economy is doing well .
The percentage of Republicans saying the war was the right decision has fallen to an all-time low of 58 % . Nonetheless , more Republicans than independents ( 42 % ) or Democrats ( 33 % ) say the war was the right decision .
It remains to be seen whether the strengthened faith that some Americans are experiencing will translate into greater service attendance , since most houses of worship are closed due to nationwide social distancing recommendations . Indeed , among U.S. adults who say they typically attend religious services at least once or twice a month , just 3 % say their congregation is still holding in-person services . The vast majority ( 91 % ) say their congregation has closed its religious services to the public , and 5 % say they do not know what their congregation has done . Vast majorities of churchgoing Christians , those who attend worship services at least once a month , report that their congregation has been closed , including nine-in-ten or more among evangelical Protestants ( 92 % ) , Catholics ( 94 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 96 % ) . A somewhat smaller majority of those in the historically black Protestant tradition say their church has closed due to the outbreak ( 79 % ) .
Among young Latinos who rely on television for news , Spanish is on the decline . A new analysis of a 2012 Pew Research Center survey of Latino adults finds that fully 90 % of Latinos ages 18 to 29 who get their news from television do so in English . When it comes to other forms of entertainment , such as television and music , use of English is higher among younger Latinos .
Germany stands out as a country where America 's image is considerably more negative today than during the Barack Obama era . Whereas Obama was extremely popular in Germany ( although his ratings did decline somewhat following the NSA scandal ) , only around one-in-ten Germans have voiced confidence in Trump in each of the past two years , ratings similar to those registered for George W. Bush at the end of his second term . Germany stands out on other measures as well . It is the country with the highest percentage ( 80 % ) saying relations with the U.S. have deteriorated over the past year , and it is tied with Sweden for the largest share of the public ( 75 % ) saying the U.S. is doing less to confront global problems . Germany is also where the biggest declines have taken place in recent years regarding the belief that the U.S. respects personal freedom and that Washington listens to other countries in international affairs .
In addition to approving of Duterte 's approach to the war on drugs , a majority ( 62 % ) believes the government is making progress in its campaign against illegal drugs , while 21 % say that things are the same as they were in the past and 15 % say the government is losing ground . While large majorities of both less-educated and more-educated Filipinos approve of Duterte 's handling of the illegal-drugs issue , these two groups differ on their views of the government 's overall progress in its fight against drugs . Filipinos with a secondary education or above ( 70 % ) are much more likely than those with a below-secondary education ( 49 % ) to say that the government is making progress in its campaign against illegal drugs .
Foreign policy : Defending the country against terrorism remains one of the public 's top policy priorities . A majority of Americans ( 67 % ) say terrorism should be a top priority this year , though this differs greatly by party . Looking at foreign conflicts , the U.S. public is divided over whether withdrawing U.S. troops from Syria is the right ( 43 % ) or wrong ( 45 % ) decision . Many Americans ( 65 % ) do not think Trump has a clear plan for dealing with the situation in Syria ; this includes a majority of Republicans ( 56 % ) and an even larger majority of Democrats ( 91 % ) .
Most of the increase has come among Republicans . Fully 61 % of Republicans favor higher defense spending , up 24 percentage points from 2013 . Support for more defense spending has increased much more modestly among other partisan groups . And the gap in support for higher military spending between Republicans and Democrats , which was 25 percentage points three years ago , now stands at 41 points .
The absence of such a frame has led to lingering concerns about whether the fraction of the population covered by nonprobability approaches can be made to look representative of the entire population . For roughly 15 years , independent studies suggested that the answer to that question was generally `` no '' if the goal was to make accurate population estimates .1 Over time , though , researchers and sample vendors have developed technologies and statistical techniques aimed at improving the representativeness of online nonprobability surveys . Several recent case studies suggest a future ( some would argue a present ) in which researchers need not have an expensive , probability-based sample to make accurate population estimates . Nearly all of the questions ( 52 ) were also asked on waves of the Center 's probability-based American Trends Panel ( ATP ) , which is conducted predominantly online but features mail response for adults who do not have internet access . The samples were evaluated using a range of metrics , including estimated bias on 20 full sample survey estimates for which high quality government benchmarks are available , estimated bias for major demographic subgroup estimates , and predictive accuracy of four different regression models . Among the most important findings of this study are the following : There is also evidence , though less consistent , that online nonprobability samples tilt more toward certain lifestyles . Most of the samples have disproportionately high shares of adults who do not have children , live alone , collect unemployment benefits and are low-income . In some respects , this squares with a stereotype one might imagine for people who find time to participate in online survey panels , perhaps akin to a part-time job . On other dimensions , however , the online nonprobabilty estimates are either quite accurate ( e.g. , have a driver 's license or length of time at current residence ) or the biases are not in a consistent direction across the samples ( e.g. , daily smoking ) .
Skip ahead to 1968 , when the world 's population had risen to around 3.5 billion and the annual rate of growth peaked at 2.1 % : American biologist Paul Ehrlich revisited the Malthusian principle in his bestseller The Population Bomb , starting a movement to hedge the trend . `` The basic point is so simple , '' Ehrlich told Retro Report . `` We have a finite planet with finite resources . In such a system , you ca n't have infinite population growth . ''
Majorities across social and demographic groups say they have at least a fair amount of confidence in scientists and medical scientists to act in the best interest of the public . Americans with more education are especially likely to say they have confidence in scientists . Among those with a postgraduate degree , 89 % say they have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in scientists and 93 % have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in medical scientists to act in the best interests of the public .
Given the choice of India , the Taliban and al Qaeda , 51 % of Pakistanis list India as the primary threat to their nation . Substantially more people rate India as their top worry compared to 2013 , when concerns were more evenly divided between India ( 38 % ) and the Taliban ( 33 % ) . Currently , the Taliban ranks as the second highest concern , with 25 % listing it as the greatest threat . Just 2 % list al Qaeda as the number one threat to their country .
The new survey finds that parents with children ages 4 or younger are more concerned than other Americans about the potential risk of side effects from the MMR vaccine . About half ( 52 % ) of parents with children ages 0 to 4 say the risk of side effects is low , while 43 % say it is medium or high . By contrast , seven-in-ten adults with no minor-age children ( 70 % ) rate the risk of side effects from the vaccine as low .
But it is unclear whether the Democrats ' advantage in party identification will benefit Obama on Election Day . Romney supporters continue to say they have given more thought to this election than Obama supporters – a key measure of voter engagement . This is consistent with the Pew Research Center 's June study that found that the GOP holds the early edge across a wide range of turnout indicators . ( For more , see `` GOP Holds Early Turnout Edge , But Little Enthusiasm for Romney , '' June 21 , 2012 . )
People with children under 18 in their homes also were more likely to say they were following flu news most closely . More than four-in-ten ( 42 % ) of those people say they followed flu developments more closely than any other story , compared with 30 % of those without children under 18 in their homes . Meanwhile , one third ( 33 % ) say they followed news about the latest unemployment report very closely , while 8 % say that was the story they followed most closely . The unemployment report took up 3 % of the newshole , according to PEJ .
As the president hit the road to shore up the Democrats ' faltering fortunes , the midterm elections topped the news agenda for the third week in a row , accounting for 26 % of the newshole from Sept. 27-Oct. 3 , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . Even though the 2010 campaign did not heat up until the primary campaigns began in earnest in the spring , it is now the third biggest story of the year to date , accounting for 7 % of the newshole , according to PEJ 's News Coverage Index . The No . 1 story in 2010 thus far has been the economy ( 12 % ) , followed by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill ( 9 % ) .
The first decade of this century witnessed an historic reduction in global poverty and a near doubling of the number of people who could be considered middle income . But the emergence of a truly global middle class is still more promise than reality . In 2011 , a majority of the world 's population ( 56 % ) continued to live a low-income existence , compared with just 13 % that could be considered middle income by a global standard , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of the most recently available data . And though there was growth in the middle-income population from 2001 to 2011 , the rise in prosperity was concentrated in certain regions of the globe , namely China , South America and Eastern Europe . The middle class barely expanded in India and Southeast Asia , Africa , and Central America .
Although 90 % approval among liberal Democrats is historically a solid showing for Obama , the 54 % share who strongly approve is tied for worst among the 13 times over his presidency that Pew Research has asked about approval strength . This June , the most recent time we had asked about approval strength , 73 % of liberal Democrats strongly approved of Obama and 17 % approved not so strongly of his job . The lukewarm support for Obama among liberal Democrats largely comes from those ages 18 - 49 . Among both adults under 50 and those 50 and older , 90 % of liberal Democrats approve of Obama . But whereas 65 % of liberal Democrats 50 and older strongly approve and just 20 % say they approve not so strongly , the younger group is narrowly divided ( 46 % strongly approve , 39 % less so ) . Compared with Obama after five years in office , George W. Bush had a lower level of approval among his base – but more of them strongly approved . In December 2005 , 82 % of conservative Republicans approved of Bush while 65 % said they strongly approved . In fact , Bush continued to have the support of 8-in-10 conservative Republicans into 2006 and 2007 and retained strong approval among 6-in-10 . ( See Bush 's five-year trend at the bottom of the post . )
While younger adults are very likely to own smartphones regardless of income level , the Pew Research report found , among older adults smartphone ownership is more of an `` elite '' phenomenon in the United States : The devices tend to be quite prevalent at the upper end of the income distribution but much less common among those with lower income levels .
The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted March 7 - 14 among 1,466 adults , also finds a wider partisan difference in personal economic assessments than in recent years . Today , 62 % of Republicans say their personal financial situation is in excellent or good shape , compared with 44 % of Democrats who say the same . GOP views have improved substantially since Donald Trump 's election . Democratic views have changed little following the shift in administration . Democrats are somewhat less positive about their future personal financial situation than they were during Barack Obama 's presidency , while Republicans have become more bullish . Today Republicans are 19 percentage points more likely to say they expect their personal finances to improve over the next year ( 82 % vs. 63 % ) . Throughout much of Obama 's tenure , the expectations gap was the reverse .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported last week that the birth rate among 15- to 19-year-olds had fallen to a record low 31.3 births per 1,000 in 2011 . Teen birth rates dropped for all racial and ethnic groups , but fell the most among Hispanic teens : from 75.3 per 1,000 in 2007 to 49.4 per 1,000 in 2011 . Teen births have been trending lower for the past three decades . In 1991 , the birth rate for all teens was 61.8 per 1,000 , according to the CDC . But the decline has accelerated since the start of the Great Recession : from 41.5 per 1,000 in 2007 to 31.3 in 2011 , a 25 % drop . ( While fertility rates fell during that period for all age groups except 40 and above , the declines were sharpest for women in their teens and 20s . )
While majorities of both Democrats and Republicans say schools have the responsibility to provide computers to at least some students , there are partisan differences when it comes to whether this should be available to all students . Democrats and the independents who lean Democratic are more likely than Republicans and their leaners to say schools have this responsibility to all students ( 45 % vs. 28 % ) .
Right after the Snowden revelations in June 2013 , a Pew Research Center poll found that 48 % of Americans approved of the government 's collection of telephone and internet data as part of anti-terrorism efforts . But by January 2014 , approval had declined to 40 % .
Generally , the public has the most confidence in the way K-12 public school principals , military leaders and police officers operate when it comes to caring about people , providing fair and accurate information to the public and handling resources responsibly . Some 84 % think principals care about the students they serve `` some of the time '' or `` all or most of the time , '' 79 % think police officers care about them at that level of frequency , and 73 % have the same level of confidence in military leaders . The public places somewhat lower – but still relatively high – levels of confidence in religious leaders , journalists and local elected officials . Members of Congress and leaders of technology companies do not have the same level of public confidence when it comes to several performance attributes . For instance , 48 % of adults think tech firm bosses care about people `` all or most of the time '' or `` some of the time , '' and 50 % feel that way about members of Congress . Similarly , 46 % think members of Congress provide fair and accurate information that often , and 61 % think this about leaders of tech firms . Some 47 % think members of Congress handle resources responsibly at least some of the time .
Overall , similar shares of registered voters are very or somewhat confident in Trump ( 51 % ) and Biden ( 48 % ) to make good decisions about economic policy , although voters are more likely to say they are very confident in Trump ( 33 % vs. 13 % ) . And about as many voters express confidence in Biden ( 46 % ) as Trump ( 43 % ) to effectively handle law enforcement and criminal justice issues . And more voters are confident in Biden than Trump to bring the country closer together . Still , fewer than half of voters are confident in Biden to help unify the country ( 45 % ) , while just 31 % are confident in Trump .
Globally , Protestants made up 37 % of Christians in 2010 . That 's a smaller share than Catholics , who comprised 50 % of Christians around the world , but substantially larger than the percentage of Orthodox Christians , who represented 12 % .
By comparison , the Washington Post/ABC News survey described the situation as follows : The AP reported classified information about U.S. anti-terrorism efforts and prosecutors have obtained AP 's phone records through a court order . Do you think this action by federal prosecutors is or is not justified ? The survey found substantially more saying the actions were justified , by a 52 % -33 % margin . The difference is likely attributable to three differences in the way the surveys described the situation . First , Pew Research referred to the decision to subpoena phone records while the WP/ABC survey said the records were obtained… through a court order , which may make the actions seem more legitimate by highlighting a court 's involvement . Second , what Pew Research described as classified information the WP/ABC poll described as classified information about U.S. anti-terrorism efforts ; past research suggests the public is willing to accept broader government actions in the defense against terrorism . Third , Pew Research mentioned the Justice Department , while WP/ABC mentioned federal prosecutors . It is likely that the DOJ , as a more political institution associated with the administration , is viewed less favorably than are prosecutors . All three of these differences likely contribute to the remarkably different survey results .
The number of Muslim refugees admitted to the United States in the first half of fiscal 2018 has dropped from the previous year more than any other religious group , falling to nearly 1,800 compared with the roughly 22,900 admitted in all of fiscal 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. State Department data . The low point in Muslim admissions was set in the year after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks . The reduction in Muslim refugee admissions is part of an overall slowdown in admissions . About 10,500 refugees , including about 6,700 Christians , entered the U.S. from Oct. 1 , 2017 , to March 31 , 2018 – far behind the 39,100 admissions at this point in fiscal 2017 ( including 18,500 Muslims and 16,900 Christians ) . As a result of these changes , Christians account for a far larger share of refugees admitted than Muslims the first half of fiscal 2018 ( 63 % vs. 17 % ) . By comparison , in full fiscal 2017 Christians ( 47 % ) and Muslims ( 43 % ) were more evenly split , and in fiscal 2016 the Muslim share ( 46 % ) slightly exceeded the Christian share ( 44 % ) .
Germans and Americans are also skeptical of China 's human rights record . Overwhelming majorities in each country say the Chinese government does not respect the personal freedoms of its people . This has been true for many years . However , since 2013 , there has been a steady decline in both Germany and America in the percentage of those saying the U.S. government respects the personal freedoms of its people . In that year , 81 % of Germans and 69 % of Americans said the U.S. government respected the personal freedoms of its people . But after multiple scandals involving the exposure of National Security Agency eavesdropping , confidence in American respect for civil liberties began to decline . Now , just 35 % of Germans and 51 % of Americans hold this view .
Most Westerners ( as well as Indians ) strongly disagree . Among those in the French general public who see Islamic identity on the rise , 87 % call it a bad thing ; in Germany , 83 % say so ; in Spain ( 82 % ) ; in India , 78 % .
Nearly half of Americans ( 48 % ) say they sympathize more with Israel in its dispute with the Palestinians while just 11 % sympathize more with the Palestinians ; 15 % volunteer that they sympathize with neither side . These opinions have fluctuated only modestly since the late 1970s ; in 1993 , the proportion sympathizing more with the Palestinians reached 21 % , the highest percentage over this period .
Obama 's support is up modestly from late December , shortly before the Iowa and New Hampshire contests . Currently , he garners 31 % of the vote , up from 26 % in December and 23 % in November . Edwards ' national support has been largely unchanged through this period .
Overall satisfaction with the choice of candidates is at its lowest point in two decades . Currently , fewer than half of registered voters in both parties – 43 % of Democrats and 40 % of Republicans – say they are satisfied with their choices for president .
But at the same time , the American public also likes leaders with the courage of their convictions . While three-in-four like leaders who are willing to compromise , two-thirds also say they like politicians who stick to their positions , even if unpopular . Just 28 % find this to be a negative trait . This conflict between compromise and conviction comes to a head when people are asked which kind of leaders they admire most . A slim majority ( 51 % ) think more highly of political leaders who make compromises , while 40 % most admire those who stick to their positions .
Beyond the examples noted above , Americans anticipate significant changes to the nature of jobs and work in the coming decades as a result of automation . Overall , roughly three-quarters of Americans ( 77 % ) think it 's realistic that robots and computers might one day be able to do many of the jobs currently done by humans , with 20 % describing this prospect as extremely realistic . And substantial shares of Americans anticipate that automation will impact a number of specific career fields over the course of their lifetimes . Sizable majorities expect that jobs such as fast food workers and insurance claims processors will be mostly performed by machines during that timeframe , while around half expect that the same will be true of jobs such as software engineers and legal clerks .
Looking at the five EU nations we have surveyed consistently since 2008 , the share of the public saying that Washington respects personal freedoms rose between 2008 and 2013 , but has fallen in the years since . In France and Germany , for example , the share of the public that says the U.S. respects personal rights is lower today than it was during the final year of the Bush presidency .
While the national media divided its time last week among a host of major news stories , the public remained intensely focused on the situation in Iraq . Fully 36 % of Americans paid very closely attention to events in Iraq and 35 % said this was the news story they followed more closely than any other . Another 12 % of the public listed the debate over Iraq policy as the story they followed most closely . News coverage of Iraq focused primarily on events on the ground , while the policy debate took a back seat . In previous weeks , the policy debate has received more media coverage than the situation in Iraq . However , dramatic events , including the capture of three American soldiers , altered the balance of coverage . Interest in the 2008 presidential campaign has remained fairly consistent in recent weeks , even while the amount of coverage has fluctuated depending on campaign events and the demands of competing news stories . This past week 18 % of the public followed campaign news very closely and another 31 % followed it fairly closely . Roughly one-in-ten listed the campaign as their most closely followed story . For the first time since February , when Pew began tracking interest in the campaign , Republicans followed campaign news as closely as did Democrats ( 22 % of both Republicans and Democrats paid very close attention to campaign news , as did 14 % of independents ) . The news media had more to offer GOP loyalists this past week , as news of the Republican candidates outweighed news of the Democrats by a significant margin . Throughout most of the year , press coverage of the campaign has consistently focused more on the Democratic candidates .
Republicans and Democrats hold similar views about the overall fairness of the tax system . Roughly four-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners ( 43 % ) and Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 41 % ) describe the present system as very or moderately fair . Majorities of both groups say it is not too or not at all fair .
When asked if being a member of the post-World War II security alliance was good or bad for the U.S. , 77 % said it was a good thing . Only 16 % said membership was a bad thing . Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has raised questions about the relevancy of NATO . An April Pew Research Center survey of Americans found that those who supported him in the primaries were more likely than voters who supported the other candidates to express skepticism about NATO 's benefits to the U.S. Three-in-ten Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters who backed Trump in the primaries said being a member of NATO is bad for the U.S . Yet , a clear majority of his primary supporters still voiced the opinion that NATO membership is good for the country ( 64 % ) .
The public was far less attentive to the other top stories of the week . Just 3 % each say that the candidates for the 2012 presidential elections , the food shortage in Somalia or a partial shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) was their most closely followed story . The 2012 elections and the famine in Somalia each received 2 % of news coverage , while the FAA shutdown accounted for 6 % of the newshole . Congress approved a measure late Friday allowing the FAA to resume operations and bring furloughed employees back to work . Close to two-in-ten ( 17 % ) tracked this news very closely . One-in-ten ( 10 % ) reported following the ongoing violence in Syria very closely , while just 1 % say this was their top story of the week . The media devoted 5 % of all coverage to the conflict , making it the fourth most heavily covered story of the week . About one-in-ten ( 12 % ) followed news about the famine in Somalia caused by severe drought and an ongoing civil conflict . Interest levels are comparable to Sept. 1992 ( 11 % very closely ) , when Somalia struggled with famine and a civil war . Public interest in the situation increased dramatically in January 1993 ( 52 % very closely ) after the U.S. sent troops to restore order and alleviate the famine .
Throughout Obama 's two terms , an overwhelming majority of blacks have expressed approval of his job performance : Today , 90 % say they approve , while just 6 % say they disapprove . Obama 's approval ratings among Hispanics have shifted over his eight-year term . With just a few weeks left in office , 71 % now approve of his job performance . This is slightly lower than it was in early 2013 , but represents a significant improvement in his ratings from late 2013 and throughout 2014 , when only about half of Hispanics approved of his job performance . Whites have consistently expressed lower approval of Obama than blacks and Hispanics , but the share saying they approve also increased this year . About half ( 49 % ) of whites now say they approve of Obama , up from just 35 % last December .
From a racial and ethnic perspective , Catholics in the NYC metro area look very similar to U.S. Catholics overall , including about a third who are Hispanic . Fewer D.C.-area Catholics are Hispanic ( 23 % ) , while more in the capital are black ( 15 % ) or Asian ( 10 % ) compared with the country overall .
In a Pew Research Center survey conducted last month ( Dec. 5 - 9 ) , 50 % of adults said they sympathized more with Israel in its dispute with the Palestinians . Just 10 % sympathized more with the Palestinians , while about as many ( 13 % ) volunteered that they sympathized with neither side . Attitudes toward Israel and the Palestinians have become more divided along partisan lines : In December , 70 % of Republicans sympathized with more Israel , while just 2 % sympathized more with the Palestinians and 7 % said they sympathized with neither side .
Usage patterns on a typical day reveal a slightly different picture . The frequency of social networking site usage among young adult internet users was stable over the last year – 61 % of online Americans in that age cohort now use SNS on a typical day , compared with 60 % one year ago . At the same time , those ages 30 - 49 have become somewhat more likely to use the sites on an average day ; the frequency of SNS use among this age group grew a modest 18 % ( from 39 % to 46 % ) over the past year . However , among the Boomer-aged segment of internet users ages 50 - 64 , SNS usage on a typical day grew a rigorous 60 % ( from 20 % to 32 % ) . And unlike the general growth in SNS adoption among those ages 65 and older , the frequency of use among the oldest group of internet users did not increase significantly over the past year .
The latest survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press and The Washington Post , conducted Sept. 22 - 25 among 1,000 adults , finds that 48 % say that , if forced to choose , they are among the haves , while 34 % say they are among the have-nots . This balance of opinion has changed little over the past six years . Over the longer term , however , the number seeing themselves in the have-nots has risen substantially . In 1988 , half as many described themselves this way ( 17 % ) as is the case today ( 34 % ) .
Views of the Affordable Care Act remain generally unchanged over the past year . More continue to disapprove ( 51 % ) than approve ( 43 % ) of the law .
As Americans receive information about the coronavirus outbreak from various international sources , majorities say they trust data from the European Union and WHO , but most are wary of information coming from the Chinese government . Only 15 % of U.S. adults say they trust information from Beijing at least a fair amount .
Overall , 72 % say there should be a way for undocumented immigrants to stay in the country legally , if certain requirements are met ; far fewer ( 27 % ) say there should not be a way for undocumented immigrants to stay in the country legally . The share who supports a path to legal status for undocumented immigrants has edged lower since March 2017 ( from 77 % ) , driven by a shift in Republican views . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , 54 % say there should be a way for undocumented immigrants to stay in the country legally , compared with 45 % who say there should not be a path to legal status . In March 2017 , Republicans supported a path to legal status by a wider margin ( 61 % to 38 % ) .
Unfavorable opinion of China in the U.S. has reached its highest point since Pew Research Center began polling on this topic in 2005 . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) of U.S. adults said in a March survey they had a negative view of the country – up nearly 20 percentage points since the beginning of the Trump administration . Roughly seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) also say they do not have confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs – a high since the Center first asked the question in 2014 .
Soon , economic troubles started to mount , and in 2008 , the economy went into a dangerous free fall that led to controversial and expensive government intervention in financial markets . The president 's approval ratings slid over time to historic lows . His approval last hit 50 % as he started his second term . It stood at just 24 % in early December .
Obesity varies considerably depending on gender , race , ethnicity and socioeconomic factors . In 2010 , CDC researchers ( using data from 2005 - 08 ) found that among black and Mexican-American men , obesity increased with income : 44.5 % and 40.8 % of those men are obese , respectively , at the highest income level , compared with 28.5 % and 29.9 % at the lowest level . Beyond that , though , the researchers found little correlation between obesity prevalence among men and either income or education . Among women , obesity was indeed most prevalent at lower income levels : 42 % of women living in households with income below 130 % of the poverty level were obese , compared with 29 % of women in households at or above 350 % of poverty . But the correlation was significant only for white women , though the trend was similar for all racial and ethnic groups studied . ( Poverty thresholds are set every year by the Census Bureau , and vary by family size and composition . In 2008 , for instance , the poverty threshold for a single person under 65 was $ 11,201 ; for a two-adult , two-child household the threshold was $ 21,834 . )
Majority continues to say that Americans can solve problems . Despite the pandemic and the grim national mood , a majority of adults ( 57 % ) continue to say that , as Americans , we can always find ways to solve our problems and get what we want . This is essentially unchanged since September 2019 , when 55 % expressed optimism in the country 's ability to solve its problems . Republicans are somewhat more likely than Democrats to say that Americans can always find ways to solve our problems . Nearly two-thirds of Republicans say this ( 65 % ) , compared with half of Democrats .
Consider how views of America 's presidents have changed in one country that has seen some especially dramatic swings : Germany . In 2008 , at the end of the George W. Bush administration , just 14 % of Germans said they had confidence in the U.S. president to do the right thing regarding world affairs . After Barack Obama took office the following year , the share of Germans with confidence in the U.S. president soared to 93 % , and at least seven-in-ten Germans continued to express confidence in Obama throughout his eight-year tenure . But after Trump became president in 2017 , the share of Germans with confidence in the U.S. president tumbled to just 11 % , and it has not changed much since . The pattern has been similar in other large European countries , including the UK , Spain and France .
Although he has not been universally praised by global publics throughout his two terms in office , previous Pew Research Center surveys have found higher international ratings for Obama than for his predecessor , George W. Bush . During the Bush era , opposition to U.S. foreign policy and rising anti-Americanism were widespread in many regions of the world , but Obama 's election in November 2008 led to a significant improvement in America 's global image . The shift was especially dramatic in Western Europe , where assessments of Bush were grim , but subsequent views of Obama have been remarkably positive .
Paris Hilton 's troubles aside , the public remained focused on the war in Iraq last week . Fully 32 % said they were following the situation in Iraq very closely and 25 % said it was the story they followed most closely . Interest in Iraq remained substantial even though news coverage of Iraq declined significantly . Only 4 % of the national news was devoted to events on the ground in Iraq and 2 % to the Iraq policy debate . The policy debate had consistently been a top five story from the time George Bush announced the surge strategy in January through the end of May .
Adherents of folk religions are the largest religious group in just three countries ( Macau , Taiwan and Vietnam ) , but they are the second-largest group in 23 nations , including China ( where `` nones '' are the biggest group ) . Hindus , meanwhile , make up the second-largest group in 12 countries , perhaps most notably Pakistan . Buddhists are the second-largest group in seven countries ( including Japan ) . Jews are not the second-largest religious group in any nation .
Support for the new health care law took a beating in November – particularly among Democrats – during a period when many Americans paid close attention to the heavy news coverage of its problem-plagued rollout , according to a Kaiser Family Foundation Health Tracking poll released today . The biggest drop in support for the law was among Democrats , amid concerns among some party lawmakers that the troubles surrounding the law would exact a political toll in next year 's midterm elections . The Kaiser survey found that Democrats holding a favorable view fell from 70 percent in October to 55 % in November . During Kaiser 's polling since the law was enacted in 2010 , support among Democrats was mostly in the 60s and 70s , although prior to October , it had fallen to the high 50s earlier this year .
A pair of newly released polls conducted in Russia and Ukraine reveals that most in both countries favor the free movement of people and goods between the two nations , and relatively few support the wholesale merger of Ukraine with Russia . The current crisis in Ukraine traces its roots back to the question of whether Ukraine should align more closely with the EU or Russia . Clear majorities in Ukraine ( 68 % ) and Russia ( 59 % ) favor open borders between the countries . In Ukraine , this is the prevailing view not only in regions where Russian-speakers predominate , such as the East ( 72 % ) and South ( 64 % ) , but in regions overwhelmingly populated by ethnic Ukrainians , such as the West ( 67 % ) . Even among Ukrainians who want to join the EU , a 63 % -majority back the free movement of goods and people between Ukraine and Russia . However , open borders is not the same as no borders . Fewer than one-in-five Ukrainians ( 12 % ) and Russians ( 16 % ) think the two countries should unite as a single state . Those living in Ukraine 's East ( 26 % ) and South ( 19 % ) are somewhat more enthusiastic about the idea of reuniting Ukraine and Russia , but support falls to the single digits in the country 's Center ( 5 % ) and West ( 1 % ) . Similarly , a 32 % -minority of Russian-speakers think the two countries should merge , compared with just 9 % among Ukrainian-speakers .
Black Protestants , who overwhelmingly identify as Democrats or as Democratic-leaning independents , are the religious group with by far the most positive views toward Biden . Roughly half ( 54 % ) say he would make a good ( 34 % ) or great ( 20 % ) president , while 36 % say he would be an average president and just 8 % say he would be poor or terrible . Meanwhile , eight-in-ten Black Protestants say Trump has been a poor ( 16 % ) or terrible ( 63 % ) president .
Over the course of more than 15 years and three presidential administrations , Americans have consistently said that defending the nation against terrorism should be a top policy priority for the White House and Congress , according to Pew Research Center surveys conducted since shortly after the attacks of Sept. 11 , 2001 . In January of this year , 73 % of U.S. adults said defending the country against future terrorist attacks should be a top priority for President Donald Trump and Congress – making this one of the most frequently cited priorities , along with improving the educational system ( 72 % ) and strengthening the nation 's economy ( 71 % ) .
The material in the chart below demonstrates to a modest degree that some things about college life may never change . Students are still night owls – at least compared to other people . The chart shows that higher proportions of college students ( labeled here as `` school '' users ) are online between midnight and 4 a.m. than other Internet users .
A similar measure – the `` usual weekly earnings '' of employed , full-time wage and salary workers – tells much the same story , albeit over a shorter time period . In seasonally adjusted current dollars , median usual weekly earnings rose from $ 232 in the first quarter of 1979 ( when the data series began ) to $ 879 in the second quarter of this year , which might sound like a lot . But in real , inflation-adjusted terms , the median has barely budged over that period : That $ 232 in 1979 had the same purchasing power as $ 840 in today 's dollars . Meanwhile , wage gains have gone largely to the highest earners . Since 2000 , usual weekly wages have risen 3 % ( in real terms ) among workers in the lowest tenth of the earnings distribution and 4.3 % among the lowest quarter . But among people in the top tenth of the distribution , real wages have risen a cumulative 15.7 % , to $ 2,112 a week – nearly five times the usual weekly earnings of the bottom tenth ( $ 426 ) .
Just as there are partisan differences in views of whether Iran poses a major threat to the United States , Republicans and Democrats prioritize different approaches to the dispute over Iran 's nuclear program . Overall , the public is divided about whether it is more important to take a firm stand against Iranian actions ( 44 % ) or to avoid a military conflict with Iran ( 49 % ) . But while 68 % of Republicans say it is more important to take a firm stand against Iranian actions , the balance of opinion is flipped among Democrats . Roughly seven-in-ten Democrats ( 71 % ) say it is more important to avoid a military conflict with Iran . Just a quarter of Republicans ( 25 % ) say it is more important to avoid a conflict , while a similar share of Democrats ( 23 % ) say they would prefer that the U.S. take a firm stand against Iranian actions .
While 11 % say they followed news about the elections most closely , the same percentage say they followed news about the release of a jailed American hiker held in Iran that closely . Nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) say they followed election news very closely , while 16 % say they followed news about the released hiker that closely . Her release accounted for 2 % of coverage . Another 4 % say they followed news about Israeli-Palestinian peace talks most closely , while 13 % say they followed this news very closely . The talks accounted for 1 % of coverage . And 4 % say they most closely followed the visit by Pope Benedict to Great Britain and his comments on the Catholic Church 's sex-abuse scandal ; 10 % say they followed this news very closely . The pope 's visit accounted for 2 % of coverage .
The public expresses far more confidence in President Obama than it does in congressional leaders of both parties when it comes to the debate over the debt ceiling . Nonetheless , only about half of Americans ( 48 % ) have even a fair amount of confidence in Obama to do the right thing when it comes to dealing with the debt ceiling , while nearly as many ( 49 % ) say they have not too much confidence or no confidence at all in the president on this issue . Just 33 % have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in Boehner to do the right thing in dealing with the debt ceiling , while 30 % say the same about McConnell and 26 % have at least a fair amount of confidence in Cantor . Ratings for Democratic leaders are equally low – 29 % for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and 27 % for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid .
Liberal Democrats are more likely than moderate or conservative Democrats to say they are very concerned about the influence made-up news could have during the election ( 58 % vs. 40 % ) . Similarly , conservative Republicans are more likely than moderate or liberal Republicans to say this ( 57 % vs. 38 % ) .
However , these differences are n't as stark among younger Americans : Hispanic teenagers ( ages 13 to 17 ) look a lot like their peers when it comes to religion , even though they are more likely than U.S. teens overall to identify as Catholic and say it 's necessary to believe in God to be moral , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey .
The widest partisan divide in the survey by far is in assessments of ICE : Republicans and Republican leaners are 49 points more likely than Democrats and Democratic leaners to hold a favorable view of the agency ( 77 % vs. 28 % ) .
Today , nearly nine-in-ten Democrats ( 88 % ) say they approve of the job Obama is doing as president , while just 15 % of Republicans say the same . A 58 % majority of independents say they approve of the way Obama is handling his job , up six points from October and 16 points from a year ago .
The American public also gives the kingdom poor marks for how it treats its citizens . Roughly seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) said the government of Saudi Arabia does not respect the personal freedoms of its people , up slightly from 64 % in 2008 . Only 11 % said it does respect personal liberty , essentially unchanged from the 13 % registered five years prior . And Americans are hardly alone in this view – across 39 nations surveyed by the Pew Research Center in 2013 , a median of just 18 % said the Saudi government respects individual rights . In contrast , a median of 70 % said the United States government respects the personal freedoms of its people ( note that the survey was conducted prior to revelations about the U.S. National Security Agency 's surveillance programs ) . Ratings for the Chinese government were not especially high ( a median of 36 % ) , but were still more positive than those for Saudi Arabia . Only Iran received an overall lower score ( a median of 11 % ) . Still , a few countries do give the Saudi regime relatively high marks : In Pakistan , Senegal , Jordan , Egypt , Nigeria and Indonesia , at least half believed the Riyadh government respects personal freedoms . All of these have populations that are over 85 % Muslim , with the exception of Nigeria , which is almost evenly split between Muslims and Christians . In several other majority Muslim nations , however , Saudi Arabia received poor ratings . On balance , Turks , Palestinians and Tunisians said the kingdom does not respect personal liberties . And in Lebanon , 71 % held this opinion , although views differed among the country 's Sunni ( 49 % ) , Shia ( 84 % ) and Christian ( 80 % ) communities .
The employment landscape in the U.S. has undergone profound changes , and the public is adapting to the new realities of the workplace and rethinking the skills they need to compete . A new Pew Research Center survey , conducted in association with the Markle Foundation , and analysis of government data finds that employment in occupations requiring more education and training is on the rise , and many workers are realizing that retraining and upgrading their skills needs to be a lifetime commitment . Employment has been rising faster in occupations requiring more preparation . As of 2015 , some 83 million people worked in jobs that require an average or above average level of preparation ( including education , experience and job training ) , up from 49 million in 1980 – a 68 % increase . This was more than double the 31 % rise in employment in positions requiring a below average level of job preparation . Employment in these jobs increased from 50 million to 65 million over the same time period . Employment and wages have increased most in occupations that require higher social or analytical skills . While employment grew by 50 % over all occupations from 1980 to 2015 , this growth was much higher among jobs that require average or above average social skills ( 83 % ) , such as interpersonal , management and communication skills , and those that require higher levels of analytical skills ( 77 % ) , such as critical thinking and computer skills . Meanwhile , employment is up by only 18 % in occupations depending more on physical skills such as manual labor , machinery operation or tool manipulation .
Among both Republicans and Democrats , however , majorities place the U.S. among the greatest nations , rather than saying it stands above others or that other nations are superior . In the new survey , 60 % of Democrats and 52 % of Republicans say the U.S. is one of the greatest countries in the world , again little changed from 2015 .
March 3 is `` Super Tuesday '' on this year 's Democratic presidential nominating calendar – the biggest single day in both number of elections and the total number of delegates at stake . All told , 1,357 delegates , or about 34 % of all pledged delegates to this summer 's Democratic National Convention , will be chosen in 14 state primaries and one territorial caucus ( American Samoa ) . And a weeklong `` global primary '' for overseas Democratic voters also starts March 3 , with 13 delegates at stake . While clearly significant , this year 's Super Tuesday is by no means the `` super-est '' – or the earliest – one the Democratic Party has ever had . By both contests held and delegates awarded , the party 's biggest Super Tuesday was Feb. 5 , 2008 – 1,688 delegates , more than 47 % of the pledged total , were chosen in 24 primaries and caucuses , a haul so impressive that it was dubbed `` Super-Duper Tuesday '' and `` Tsunami Tuesday . '' ( This post focuses on the Democrats because Republicans are n't having a competitive nomination contest this year . )
People in countries with significant Muslim populations express overwhelmingly negative views of ISIS , according to our spring survey in 11 countries . Recent attacks in Paris , Beirut and Baghdad linked to the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) have once again brought terrorism and Islamic extremism to the forefront of international relations . Majorities in most of the 11 countries express unfavorable views of ISIS , but the exception is Pakistan , where a majority offer no opinion .
The public expresses highly positive views of the way local hospitals and medical centers are responding to the coronavirus outbreak . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) say hospitals and medical centers in their area are doing an excellent or good job in responding to the outbreak , including 47 % who say they are doing an excellent job . The public is much less positive in evaluations of how the news media and Donald Trump have responded to the coronavirus outbreak . Fewer than half of Americans ( 46 % ) say the news media have done a good or excellent job in responding to the outbreak ; 53 % say they have done a fair or poor job .
Democrats are positive about their presidential field , though less so than in 2008 . Overall , 64 % of Democratic voters have an excellent or good impression of the candidates running for the Democratic nomination . That is much higher than at similar points during the 1988 , 1992 and 2004 presidential campaigns . In January 2008 , however , 78 % had a positive view of the presidential candidates as a group .
Moreover , while the Democratic Party is viewed more favorably than it was a few months ago , the Republican Party 's image is little changed – and remains much more negative than positive . Just 36 % have a favorable opinion of the GOP , compared with 56 % who have an unfavorable opinion . That is largely unchanged from January ( 35 % favorable vs. 58 % unfavorable ) . Currently , 49 % say they have a favorable impression of the Democratic Party , while 43 % view the party unfavorably . In January , 43 % viewed the Democratic Party favorably and 51 % had an unfavorable impression .
A 2013 Pew Research Center survey of Hispanic adults finds that about six-in-ten Dominican adults ( 59 % ) identify themselves as Catholic . Roughly two-in-ten ( 21 % ) Dominicans are Protestant , and among all Dominicans , 6 % are mainline Protestants and 16 % are evangelical Protestants . Some 16 % of Dominican adults are religiously unaffiliated . In contrast , among all Hispanics 55 % identify as Catholic , 22 % identify as Protestant , and about two-in-ten ( 18 % ) are unaffiliated .
A majority of Americans see gender discrimination as a problem in the tech industry . Tech companies have faced criticism for their hiring practices and work cultures , including reports of discrimination on the basis of race and ethnicity and gender . A majority of Americans ( 73 % ) say discrimination against women is a problem in the tech industry , with 37 % citing it as a major problem , according to a summer 2017 survey . When it comes to discrimination against black and Hispanic Americans in tech – two groups that are underrepresented in the industry – roughly two-thirds of Americans ( 68 % ) say this is a problem ( 31 % say it 's a major problem ) , according to the same survey .
People in other countries overwhelmingly believe the U.S. has done a bad job dealing with COVID-19 . Across the 13 countries surveyed this summer , a median of 84 % of adults say the U.S. has done a bad job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak , including 53 % who say it has done a very bad job . A median of only 15 % of adults in the surveyed countries see the U.S. response positively . Opinions about the U.S. response are especially negative in South Korea , Denmark , Germany and Belgium . In each of these countries , around nine-in-ten adults say the U.S. response to COVID-19 has been bad , including roughly two-thirds in South Korea ( 66 % ) and Belgium ( 64 % ) who say it has been very bad .
With Trump likely to face questions on how he plans to separate himself from his business interests as president , 57 % of the public says they are either very ( 33 % ) or somewhat ( 24 % ) concerned that his relationships with organizations , businesses or foreign governments conflict with his ability to serve the country 's best interests . However , public concern is lower than it was in the immediate aftermath of the election : In December , 65 % said they were at least somewhat concerned about Trump 's ability to serve the country 's best interests . The share saying they are very concerned about Trump 's potential conflicts of interest is down 12 points , from 45 % a month ago . A majority of Democrats ( 59 % ) are very concerned that Trump 's relationships conflict with his ability to serve the country 's best interests ; just 7 % of Republicans say the same . Both groups express less concern than they did in December : Democrats are 11 points less likely to say they are very concerned and Republicans are 6 points less likely to say this .
College-educated households with student loans to repay have a lower net worth than those with no student debt . Young college-educated households with no student debt have the highest net worth by far . They have about seven times the net worth of households with student debt . Non-college educated households with outstanding student debt are in the worst position in terms of wealth accumulation . They lag behind their fellow student debtors who graduated from college , and they also trail young adults without a college degree who are free of student debt .
That was a different era , one in which there was far less partisan acrimony and voters saw less importance in the outcome of the election than they do today . Twenty years ago , just half of voters said it really mattered ; as of August , 83 % express this view .
Property crime in the U.S. is much more common than violent crime . In 2019 , the FBI reported a total of 2,109.9 property crimes per 100,000 people , compared with 379.4 violent crimes per 100,000 people . Both the FBI and BJS data show dramatic declines in U.S. violent and property crime rates since the early 1990s , when crime spiked across much of the nation . Using the BJS statistics , the declines in the violent and property crime rates are even steeper than those reported by the FBI . Per BJS , the overall violent crime rate fell 74 % between 1993 and 2019 , while the property crime rate fell 71 % .
Overall , nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say that on the issues that matter to them , their side loses more often than it wins . Just 25 % say their side comes out ahead more often .
Decades after internet access became widely available , Pew Research Center surveys show that about a tenth of American adults ( 12 % ) remain offline . But what happens when some of them take the plunge and connect ? A new analysis provides a glimpse of the online behaviors of those who are new to the internet . The Center provided internet-connected tablet computers to 112 people who are members of our American Trends Panel . These panelists , who previously received our surveys through the mail , had never used the internet under any circumstances . This change allowed these respondents to become internet users if they wished by using the tablets for online activities other than taking surveys .
One-in-ten U.S. adults say they have taken part in an activity classified as citizen science in the past year , and 26 % say they have ever done so , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 29-May 5 . Other ways people have engaged with science and scientific research over the past year include taking part in a clinical or medical research study ( 6 % ) and giving money to support medical or science research ( 13 % ) . For comparison , about two-in-ten adults ( 19 % ) and 44 % of parents with a minor-age child say they have helped a child with a science project in the past year .
Today , roughly two-thirds of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters ( 65 % ) say they have an excellent ( 23 % ) or good ( 42 % ) impression of the Democratic presidential candidates as a group . By comparison , in September 2015 , only about half of Democratic voters ( 51 % ) said the same .
Despite growing security threats to member countries , most NATO members appear reluctant to boost their own countries ' military spending . About a third ( median of 32 % ) across the NATO nations surveyed say their country should increase its national defense spending , while nearly half ( median of 47 % ) want to keep spending the same and 14 % favor decreasing defense spending .
Public perceptions of the tone of economic news have become much less negative over the past month . In fact , the percentage saying they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy has dropped to its lowest point since the question was first asked in December 2008 . The latest News Interest Index survey , conducted Jan. 6 - 9 among 1,018 adults , finds that Republicans , in particular , are much less likely to say they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy than they were just a month ago . Currently , 24 % say they have been hearing mostly bad news , half of the number that said this in early December ( 50 % ) . Seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Republicans say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , up from 47 % in December . Through most of the Obama administration , Republicans have been far more likely than Democrats to say the economic news they are hearing is mostly bad . In early November , for example , Republicans were twice as likely to say this ( 53 % vs. 26 % ) . Now , as the number of Republicans taking the most negative viewpoint has dropped , the partisan gap has narrowed to just seven points ( 24 % of Republicans vs. 17 % of Democrats ) .
On balance , people across the former Soviet bloc nations approve of the changeover to a multiparty electoral system and free market economy . Majorities in Poland , the Czech Republic , Slovakia , Hungary , Lithuania and the area corresponding to former East Germany all rate these transitions favorably . In Central and Eastern Europe , there have been dramatic increases in the shares of people who say the changes of the past 30 years or so have led to improved living standards . This is the case in all the former Soviet bloc countries surveyed in both 1991 and today . For example , in 1991 , only 9 % of Lithuanians said that the changes that had taken place by that point had a good influence on the standard of living in their country . This year , seven-in-ten in Lithuania say the changes had a positive influence on living standards . On almost every aspect of life tested in 2019 – from education to national pride – people in the region today are generally convinced that the changes have had a good influence on their country . But fewer people across these countries think the changes have been good for family values , the state of health care and law and order compared with the other aspects tested . Across the board , Europeans are much more satisfied with their own lives than they were in 1991 . The improvement has been especially dramatic in Central and Eastern European countries . For example , in 1991 , only 12 % in Poland rated their life satisfaction at 7 or higher on a 10-point scale . In the new survey , 56 % rate their lives at 7 or higher . There has also been a dramatic increase in life satisfaction in Germany since 1991 – but much more so among people living in former East Germany than among those living in the former West .
The recent shift toward a preference for full-time work has been more pronounced among working mothers themselves than among those who are not employed . Fully 37 % of today 's working mothers say their ideal situation would be to work full time , up from 21 % of working mothers in 2007 . Only 11 % of working mothers say their ideal situation would be not to work at all , down from 19 % in 2007 . Part-time work remains the most appealing option for working mothers ; 50 % now say working part time would be ideal for them , down marginally from 60 % in 2007 . Read more
More than half in Poland ( 58 % ) and the Czech Republic ( 54 % ) offered critical opinions of Russia . And ratings of Russia were even worse among Western European publics . Majorities in France ( 65 % ) , Germany ( 62 % ) , and Sweden ( 59 % ) expressed an unfavorable view of Russia .
And while the broadband gap between rural and non-rural Americans has narrowed over time , rural adults remain less likely to have a high-speed internet connection at home . Seven-in-ten suburban residents and two-thirds of urban dwellers say they subscribe to broadband services at home , compared with 58 % of rural adults , according to a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted in January .
Strengthening the nation 's economy ( 75 % ) and defending the country from future terrorist attacks ( 75 % ) stand at the top of the public 's priority list for the president and Congress in 2016 . A tier below these top issues , about two-thirds call improving the educational system ( 66 % ) and improving the job situation ( 64 % ) top priorities for the country . The public now ranks reducing the budget deficit ( 56 % top priority ) toward the middle of its list , alongside issues such as reducing crime ( 58 % ) and dealing with the problems of poor and needy people ( 54 % ) . Fewer than half say reforming the criminal justice system should be a top priority ( 44 % ) . Even fewer cite dealing with global climate change ( 38 % ) or dealing with gun policy ( 37 % ) as top priorities for the country .
Consistent liberals and conservatives who use Facebook are more highly engaged with political news than less ideologically consistent users . Two-thirds of consistent conservatives who see political posts on Facebook pay `` a lot '' or `` some '' attention to those posts . Similarly , six-in-ten consistent liberals who see political posts on Facebook pay `` a lot '' or `` some '' attention .
This year marks the centennial of the ratification of the 19th Amendment to the United States Constitution , which guarantees women the right to vote . But the United States was hardly the first country to codify women 's suffrage , and barriers to vote persisted for some groups of U.S. women for decades . At least 20 nations preceded the U.S. , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of women 's enfranchisement measures in 198 countries and self-administering territories . Today , none of these 198 countries and territories bar women from voting because of their sex ; some countries do not hold national elections .
At the same time , most Latino adults say it is not necessary to speak Spanish to be considered Latino . According to a recent Pew Research Center survey of Latinos , 71 % of Latino adults hold that view while 28 % say the opposite . For example , 58 % of immigrant Hispanics say speaking Spanish is n't a necessary component of Latino identity , as do 87 % of U.S.-born Hispanics . The 2015 survey of Latino adults also shows that among Hispanic registered voters , 81 % say speaking Spanish is not required to be considered Hispanic .
That figure compares with about three-quarters of stories that cited Trump or a member of his administration , 35 % that cited another news outlet or journalist , 26 % that cited a Republican member of Congress and 21 % that cited a Democratic member . Stories that cited a member of the public also are less common than those that cite an expert or an interest group .
While we do n't have much demographic information about the quiz-takers , we do know that they were much more likely than the general population to live in large cities or nearby suburbs , and less likely to live in a small city or town—and were half as likely as the national population to live in a rural area . This lines up with our previous research , which found that people who live in rural areas are more likely to be older and living in lower-income households , and likewise less likely to use libraries .
Demographic changes have reshaped both party coalitions over the past quarter century , pushing them further apart . Democratic voters are becoming less white , less religious and better-educated at a faster rate than the country as a whole , while aging at a slower rate . Within the GOP , the pattern is the reverse : Republican voters are becoming more diverse , better-educated and less religious at a slower rate than the country generally , while the age profile of the GOP is growing older more quickly than that of the nation as a whole .
While the journalism world conferred its top honor yesterday to the newspapers that reported on Edward Snowden 's National Security Agency leaks , the public remains divided over whether those classified leaks served the public interest . In the recent survey , attitudes about the leaks varied by age . Adults ages 18 - 29 are more likely to say the leaks helped the public ( 57 % ) than hurt it ( 35 % ) . Adults 30 - 49 are somewhat split , while those ages 50 and older are more likely to say the leaks harmed than helped the public .
Trust in government has typically been higher among those associated with the party in control of the White House than among those who support the opposing party . This is true today as Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are now more likely than Democrats and Democratic leaners to say they trust the federal government to do what is right always or most of the time ( 28 % vs. 15 % , respectively ) . Trust in government among Republicans has increased 17 points since October 2015 . The current share of Republicans who say they trust the government at least most of the time ( 28 % ) is considerably higher than throughout much of the Obama administration and is on par with the share of Republicans who said this in 2007 and 2008 . Still , GOP trust in government today remains significantly lower than it was throughout most of George W. Bush 's administration . While Republicans ' trust in government has increased substantially over the last several months , Democratic trust in government is now as low as it has ever been in 60 years . Just 15 % of Democrats say they trust the government in Washington to do what is right always or most of the time , a decrease of 11 percentage points since fall 2015 . ( See the accompanying interactive for long-term trends on public trust in government , including among partisan and demographic groups ) .
Ahead of Donald Trump 's inauguration as the nation 's 45th president , the public sees a country deeply fractured along partisan lines . Fully 86 % describe the country as more politically divided today than in the past , while just 12 % say the country is no more divided .
In fact , it 's the Nixon-era 's 18-year-olds , who were born in the middle of the Baby Boom and were ages 56 - 61 last election , who are more Democratic-leaning . In 2012 , their margin of support for Obama exceeded the national average by 5 points .
Only about half of the violent crimes and a third of the property crimes that occur in the United States each year are reported to police . And most of the crimes that are reported do n't result in the arrest , charging and prosecution of a suspect , according to government statistics . In 2015 , the most recent year for which data are available , 47 % of the violent crimes and 35 % of the property crimes tracked by the Bureau of Justice Statistics were reported to police . Those figures come from an annual BJS survey of 90,000 households , which asks Americans ages 12 and older whether they were victims of a crime in the past six months and , if so , whether they reported that crime to law enforcement or not . Even when violent and property crimes are reported to police , they 're often not solved – at least based on a measure known as the clearance rate . That 's the share of cases each year that are closed , or `` cleared , '' through the arrest , charging and referral of a suspect for prosecution . In 2015 , 46 % of the violent crimes and 19 % of the property crimes reported to police in the U.S. were cleared , according to FBI data . Reporting and clearance rates for violent and property crimes have held relatively steady over the past two decades , even as overall crime rates in both categories have declined sharply . Between 1995 and 2015 , the share of violent crimes reported to police each year ranged from 40 % to 51 % ; for property crimes , the share ranged from 32 % to 40 % . During the same period , the share of violent crimes cleared by police ranged from 44 % to 50 % ; for property crimes , annual clearance rates ranged from 16 % to 20 % .
The public sees tougher financial times on the horizon for older Americans . A majority of U.S. adults ( 57 % ) say those ages 65 and older will have a worse standard of living in 2050 than they do today . About seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) say older adults will be less prepared financially for retirement than their counterparts today . And an even larger share ( 83 % ) believes most people will definitely or probably have to work into their 70s to be able to afford retirement .
As was the case in March , conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats have contrasting opinions about the Supreme Court 's ideology . Half ( 50 % ) of conservative Republicans say the court is liberal , compared with just 8 % who say it is conservative ( 35 % say it is `` middle of the road '' ) . Liberal Democrats are far more likely to say the court is conservative ( 40 % ) than liberal ( 19 % ) , with 35 % saying it is middle of the road . The percentage of conservative Republicans who view the Supreme Court as liberal has increased markedly since the Bush administration . In 2007 , just 22 % of conservative Republicans said the court was liberal . That percentage rose to 39 % in 2010 and stands at 50 % today .
A sizable majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say Barack Obama ( 71 % ) is the best ( 51 % ) or second best ( 20 % ) president in their lifetimes . About half of Democrats name Clinton ( 49 % ) . Another 14 % of Democrats name Kennedy as one of their top two , 12 % name Reagan and 10 % mention George W. Bush . A majority of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say Reagan ( 57 % ) ranks in the top two presidents in their lifetimes . Another 40 % of Republicans name Trump , while 20 % name George W. Bush , 16 % name George H.W . Bush and 15 % mention Clinton .
But agreeing on a budget resolution has itself often proven problematic . Although the Congressional Budget Act establishes April 15 as the target date , Congress frequently misses that deadline ( this year , for example , the resolution was n't agreed to till Oct. 26 ) – or , as in six of the seven most recent fiscal years , never adopts a formal budget resolution at all . Next , Congress is supposed to pass a series of separate bills funding various agencies and activities of the federal government . ( For the past decade , the number of spending bills has stood at 12 , one for each subcommittee of the House and Senate appropriations committees . ) The deadline for doing that is Oct. 1 , when the new fiscal year starts . But since 1997 , Congress has never passed more than a third of its regular appropriations bills on time , and usually has done considerably less than that : For instance , for six straight years ( fiscal 2011 through 2016 ) , not a single spending bill was passed by Oct. 1 .
This pattern is not uniformly the case , however . People in France and the UK stand out for being much less optimistic than their counterparts in nations with similar youth unemployment rates . French and British adults , in fact , are about as pessimistic about the financial future of the next generation as people in Italy , Spain and Greece – even though France and the UK have youth unemployment rates that are roughly 10 to 20 percentage points lower .
Last spring , when the country was reeling from the devastation caused by the earthquake and tsunami , 52 % of Japanese predicted tougher economic times ahead . Today , fewer are as downbeat ( 33 % say the economic situation will worsen over the coming year ) , but optimists are still a minority ( 16 % ) . The prevailing view ( 49 % ) is that the economy wo n't improve over the next 12 months .
White and Hispanic Catholics are very different politically . Nearly six-in-ten White Catholic registered voters ( 57 % ) identify with or lean toward the Republican Party , marking a big shift since 2008 , when four-in-ten ( 41 % ) supported the GOP . Most Hispanic Catholic voters ( 68 % ) , meanwhile , identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , a share that has remained fairly stable in the past decade . ( Two-thirds of Catholic registered voters are White , while a quarter are Hispanic , according to data collected in 2018 and 2019 . )
Those who personally know someone who has had an abortion are only modestly more likely than those who do not to say abortion should be legal . Almost two-thirds of those who know someone who has had an abortion say abortion should be legal in all or most cases ( 64 % ) . Among those who do not know someone who has had an abortion , support for legal abortion is slightly lower ( 57 % ) .
When asked if certain traits apply to elected officials – as well as to business leaders and the typical American – most people do say the term `` intelligent '' describes elected officials very or fairly well ( 67 % ) . However , just as many view the `` typical American '' as intelligent . Somewhat more ( 83 % ) say the term describes business leaders well . And elected officials receive very low marks for honesty . Just 29 % say the term `` honest '' describes elected officials . That compares with 45 % who say business leaders are honest and 69 % who say the same about typical Americans . A large majority of the public ( 72 % ) also views elected officials as `` selfish '' – but that criticism is not unique to politicians . Comparable percentages also say the term applies to typical Americans ( 68 % ) and business leaders ( 67 % ) .
Those numbers began to deteriorate sharply starting in late 2007 as the nation 's economic crisis took hold . In February 2008 , only 17 % of people rated the economy excellent or good and , a year later , only 4 % gave the `` good '' response , ( no one used excellent ) . In that month 's survey , 71 % called the economy poor . Although the recession was declared over in June 2009 by the National Bureau of Economic Research , Americans have remained deeply skeptical of the recovery . Only since last fall has the percentage calling it excellent or good consistently remained above 10 % . Most people still rate the economy `` only fair '' ( 43 % in the most recent survey ) or poor ( 40 % ) . In addition , a plurality ( 40 % ) in the March survey said it would be a long time before the economy recovers and 31 % said it was not recovering but would soon . Read more
For the most part , Americans ' conversations about the election have not led to arguments , though 38 % of the public says they have had an argument about the election or its outcome . Still , just 9 % characterize the arguments as `` major . '' In July , a nearly identical share of registered voters ( 37 % ) said they had argued about the election .
While Filipinos generally favor the pursuit of a less-tense relationship with China , the threat of conflict still exists , given the ongoing territorial disputes . In the event that a serious military conflict did occur between the Philippines and China , 68 % believe the U.S. would use military force to defend their country . Even among those who hold the U.S. in an unfavorable light , a majority ( 58 % ) believe that the U.S. would use military force to defend the Philippines . Meanwhile , a majority of Americans ( 58 % ) say that the U.S. should use military force to defend their Asian allies against China in the event of a serious conflict .
The change in news interest in the post-Sept. 11 period was striking . On average , just 23 % of the public paid very close attention to the typical news story before the attacks , which is comparable to yearly averages since 1990 . But after the attacks , that number more than doubled , to 48 % .
In our survey last year , we found that 7 % of online adults ages 18 - 29 were aware that they had important personal information stolen such as their Social Security Number , credit card or bank account information . The latest survey finds that 15 % of young adults have experienced this kind of personal information theft . Similarly , those ages 50 - 64 became significantly more likely to report that they had personal information stolen ; while 11 % said they had this experience in July , that figure jumped to 20 % in January . Increases among other age groups were not statistically significant .
Public trust in the government , already quite low , has edged even lower in a survey conducted just before the Oct. 16 agreement to end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling . Just 19 % say that they trust the government in Washington to do what is right just about always or most of the time , down seven points since January . The current measure matches the level reached in August 2011 , following the last battle over the debt ceiling . Explore a Pew Research interactive on Public Trust in Government : 1958 - 2013 .
The Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts publishes its own statistics about federal jury duty , which is even rarer than state-level service because federal courts handle far fewer cases each year than state courts do . The federal statistics show a significant decline both in the number of people called to jury duty and in the number who are chosen . ( The data count only petit , or trial , juries ; they exclude grand juries . ) In fiscal 2016 , federal courts called 194,211 people for petit jury duty , down 37 % from 307,204 in fiscal 2006 . And 43,697 people were selected for federal petit jury duty , down 39 % from 71,578 a decade earlier . The decrease in jurors tracks a broader decline in the number of federal jury trials : In 2016 , just 2 % of 77,318 total federal defendants had their cases decided by a jury , half the total in 2006 .
Americans overwhelmingly support direct talks between the United States and North Korea over its nuclear program . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) approve of these talks , while just 21 % disapprove . However , the public is skeptical about whether North Korea 's leaders are serious about addressing concerns over its nuclear program . Overall , 49 % say North Korea 's leadership is not serious about addressing international concerns over the country 's nuclear enrichment program , while 38 % think North Korea 's leaders are serious about addressing these concerns .
At the same time , majorities in nearly all nations also embrace another form of democracy that places less emphasis on elected representatives . A global median of 66 % say direct democracy – in which citizens , rather than elected officials , vote on major issues – would be a good way to govern . This idea is especially popular among Western European populists .
In practical terms , this type of hyperinflation means that the price of goods can shoot up precipitously over the course of only a week . The turbulent economy has left many Venezuelans saying they can not afford key necessities . In the new Center survey , about three-quarters say there were times over the past year when they did not have enough money to buy food their family needed , 80 % said they sometimes could not pay for their family 's medical or health care , and 87 % said they could not always afford to buy clothing for their family . These differences cut across cleavages in society : Men and women , older and younger Venezuelans , and those with higher and lower levels of education are similarly likely to say they ca n't afford these basics .
By a ratio of more than two-to-one ( 59 % versus 27 % ) , Latinos disapprove of the way the Obama administration is handling deportations of unauthorized immigrants , according to a new national survey of Latino adults by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center .
A record 12.7 million Mexican immigrants lived in the United States in 2008 , a 17-fold increase since 1970 . Mexicans now account for 32 % of all immigrants living in this country . The second-largest nationality group of immigrants , Filipinos , account for just 5 % of all immigrants in the U.S .
Support for suicide terrorism among Muslim Americans is similarly rare : 78 % believe that suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilian targets to defend Islam from its enemies can never be justified , and another 5 % say these types of attacks are rarely justified . Fewer than one-in-ten American Muslims say that suicide bombing is sometimes ( 7 % ) or often ( 1 % ) justified . Over the course of the decade , the Pew Global Attitudes Project has asked this same question of Muslim populations around the world , and results show that Muslims in the U.S. are among the most likely to reject suicide bombing . Among the populations surveyed recently , opposition to suicide bombing is highest in Pakistan ( 87 % say it is never justified ) — a nation currently plagued by suicide bombings and violence by extremist groups . As recently as 2004 , only 35 % of Pakistani Muslims held this view . As Pew Global Attitudes surveys have documented , the growing rejection of extremism in Pakistan is part of a broader pattern in the Muslim world . Most European Muslims surveyed agree that suicide attacks can never be justified . This view is especially prevalent in Germany , where 83 % of the country 's largely Turkish Muslim community say that suicide attacks are not justifiable . Most Muslims in Turkey , Indonesia , Jordan , Israel and Egypt agree , while fewer than half take this position in Lebanon and Nigeria . Palestinians are the clear outlier on this issue — only 17 % think violence against civilian targets can never be justified .
For Asians , the gender pattern goes in the opposite direction : Asian women are much more likely than Asian men to marry someone of a different race . Among newlyweds in 2013 , 37 % of Asian women married someone who was not Asian , while 16 % of Asian men married outside of their race . American Indians have the highest interracial marriage rate among all single-race groups . Women are slightly more likely to `` marry out '' than men in this group : 61 % of American Indian female newlyweds married outside their race , compared with 54 % of American Indian male newlyweds .
How home broadband users connect : Cable continues to dominate DSL
Public opinion about the legalization of same-sex marriage and the 2010 health care law has changed little following the Supreme Court 's decisions on those issues . Currently , 54 % of Americans say they favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , with 39 % opposed . In May , 57 % favored legalizing same-sex marriage , while 39 % opposed .
6 A rising share of them cite `` usability '' issues as their main barrier : 32 % now say they do n't use the internet because they say it is not easy for them to use . These non-users say it is difficult or frustrating to go online , they are physically unable , or they are worried about other issues such as spam , spyware and hackers . This figure is considerably higher than in earlier surveys . In 2009 when we asked that same question , only 12 % of offline Americans cited usability issues as a reason for not being online .
The balance of party identification among all voters tends to change slowly over time . For most of the past quarter-century , Democrats have held at least a slight edge . Currently , 34 % of registered voters identify as independents , 33 % identify with the Democratic Party while 29 % identify as Republicans . When the partisan leanings of independents are taken into account , 48 % either identify as Democrats or lean Democratic ; 44 % identify as Republicans or lean Republican .
When asked about partnering on key issues , a majority of Germans say that the U.S. is not a partner on nearly every issue tested . Fewer than four-in-ten say that the U.S. is a partner on dealing with China , promoting free trade , protecting democracy and human rights , and protecting the environment . In fact , a mere 12 % of Germans say the U.S. is a partner on the environment .
`` Cuban '' is the identity term used most often . When asked in a 2013 Pew Research Center survey what term they use to describe themselves most often , a majority of Cuban adults ( 63 % ) say they most often use term `` Cuban . '' About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they describe themselves most often as `` American . '' Only about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) most often use the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' to describe their identity . By comparison , 54 % of all U.S. Hispanics say they prefer their ancestor 's Hispanic origin term to describe their identity , 23 % say they describe themselves most often as `` American '' and two-in-ten use the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' to describe their identity . In regard to the pan-ethnic terms of `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino , '' about half of Cuban adults ( 51 % ) have no preference for either term . Among those who have a preference , more prefer the term `` Hispanic '' ( 29 % of all Cubans ) , while some 19 % prefer the term `` Latino . '' By comparison , half of all Hispanic adults have no preference for either term ; among those who do have a preference , Hispanic is favored over Latino 2-to-1 . When asked in the 2013 Pew Research survey whether they thought of themselves as a typical American or very different from a typical American , 55 % of Cuban adults see themselves as a typical American , while about four-in-ten ( 37 % ) think of themselves as very different from a typical American . By comparison , Hispanic adults overall are less likely to think of themselves as typical Americans ( 49 % ) compared with Cubans , and on balance Hispanic adults are more likely to see themselves as a typical American ( 49 % ) than very different from a typical American ( 44 % ) .
In assessing why some people are poor , 53 % think it is because of circumstances beyond their control , while 34 % attribute it to a lack of effort . There has been little change in these opinions in recent years , according to a survey in December .
In each midterm election since 1974 , the number of Latino voters reached a new record high , largely reflecting the community 's fast population growth .6 However , the share of those Latinos who actually vote on Election Day—the voter turnout rate—has lagged significantly behind other racial and ethnic groups .
The Pew Global Attitudes survey found that America 's overall image improved significantly across much of the world over the last year , and Mexico is no exception . While slightly less than half ( 47 % ) expressed a positive opinion of the U.S. in 2008 , 69 % do so now . Views of the American people also have become more positive since 2008 .
Republicans also were somewhat less likely than Democrats to post about the attack in general : 66 % of GOP members with Facebook pages did so between the day of the attack and Oct. 9 , compared with 84 % of Democrats . ( Oct. 9 was chosen as the cutoff date to gauge lawmakers ' early reactions to the shooting . )
In a new survey conducted in September 2014 , the Pew Research Center finds that Facebook remains by far the most popular social media site . While its growth has slowed , the level of user engagement with the platform has increased . Other platforms like Twitter , Instagram , Pinterest and LinkedIn saw significant increases over the past year in the proportion of online adults who now use their sites .
On issues , the Democratic Party holds double-digit advantages as better able to handle the environment ( by a margin of 53 % to 27 % ) , abortion and contraception policies ( 50 % to 31 % ) , education ( 46 % to 34 % ) and health care ( 46 % to 36 % ) . The Republican Party has wide leads for better reflecting people 's views on gun control ( 48 % to 36 % ) and dealing with the terrorist threat at home ( 44 % to 34 % ) .
Meanwhile , smartphones are still relatively rare , although significant minorities own these devices in countries such as Lebanon , Chile , Jordan and China .
The public is highly critical of how the press has done their job in several respects . About six-in-ten Americans say the press has done only a fair or poor job in covering the candidates ' positions on issues ( 59 % ) , campaign strategies ( 57 % ) , the candidates ' personal backgrounds or experiences ( 57 % ) , and in explaining how the nominees are chosen ( 57 % ) .
The second most heavily covered news story of the week involved Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and the controversy surrounding his recent statements to Congress . The national news media devoted 6 % of its overall coverage to this story . Public interest in this story remains relatively low , as the focus has expanded from Gonzales 's involvement in the firing of eight U.S. attorneys to questions about whether he misled Congress on important national security issues . This past week 15 % of the public followed the Gonzales story very closely , unchanged from last month and down slightly from late-March and early-April when 22 % were following the story very closely . Republicans and Democrats are following this story in nearly equal proportions — a change from earlier months when Democrats were tracking the story much more closely than Republicans . The gruesome murders of a mother and her two daughters in Cheshire , Connecticut drew a relatively large news audience last week . Although only 12 % said they followed the story very closely , 9 % listed this as the story they followed most closely , making it the number three story in terms of news interest . Overall , the national news media devoted 2 % of its coverage to this story .
Only about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) cite news about protests in Egypt and other Middle Eastern countries as the story they followed most closely last week . By contrast , more than three times that number ( 38 % ) followed news about the aftermath of the Jan. 8 Arizona shooting rampage most closely last week , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Jan. 27 - 30 among 1,007 adults . For its part , the media devoted more attention to news about unrest in the Middle East ( 20 % of coverage ) than any other story last week , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Just 4 % of coverage was devoted to the aftermath of the Arizona shootings .
Almost six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) consider it an appropriate use of technology to genetically engineer animals to grow organs or tissues that could be used for humans needing a transplant , while 41 % say this would be going too far , according to a new survey by Pew Research Center .
Even though America 's image has declined since Trump 's election , on balance the U.S. still receives positive marks – across the 25 nations polled , a median of 50 % have a favorable opinion of the U.S. , while 43 % offer an unfavorable rating . However , a median of only 27 % say they have confidence in President Trump to do the right thing in world affairs ; 70 % lack confidence in him .
The public gives mixed ratings for how news organizations covered the events in Baltimore . About half rate the coverage as `` only fair '' ( 28 % ) or `` poor '' ( 20 % ) , while roughly as many rate it `` excellent '' ( 9 % ) or `` good '' ( 35 % ) . Whites , blacks and Hispanics give generally similar ratings .
In districts where GOP candidates for the House prevailed , 65 % of Republican voters say they are very confident votes in their community were counted as intended , while 53 % of Democratic voters in these districts say the same . And the pattern is reversed among voters in districts where Democratic candidates won : 62 % of Democratic voters in these districts say they are very confident in the vote count in their community ; 48 % of GOP voters in these places say the same .
A recent Pew Research Center survey of LGBT Americans found that among LGBT adults , gay men ( 72 % ) are the most likely to have ever attended a pride event , followed by lesbians ( 61 % ) and bisexuals ( 33 % ) . When it comes to more recent attendance , roughly equal shares of gay men ( 29 % ) and lesbians ( 23 % ) had attended a pride event in the 12 months prior to the survey , compared with just 9 % of bisexuals . The survey also found that gay pride events are more likely to be attended by those who say their sexual orientation or gender identity is `` extremely '' or `` very '' important to their overall identity ( 66 % ) , than those who view their sexual orientation as less important to their overall identity ( 45 % ) . Our survey was conducted from April 11 - 29 , 2013 , prior to the beginning of this year 's LGBT pride month .
Both the American and German publics support cooperating more with a number of global powers in the future . Majorities across both nations want to work more with each other , as well as with France , Great Britain and China . However , fewer Germans want their country to cooperate more with the U.S. than with any other country tested . And roughly one-third in Germany ( 34 % ) say they want to cooperate less with the U.S. in the future . Almost eight-in-ten in Germany want to see their country working more with Russia . Americans are split – just 43 % want increased cooperation with Moscow while 44 % hold the opposite view . Democrats are much more likely than Republicans to say the U.S. should cooperate less with Russia in the future ( 55 % versus 35 % respectively ) . But when it comes to working with Germany , France , Great Britain and China , Democrats are more likely than Republicans to want increased cooperation .
Chinese President Xi Jinping is visiting France , Italy and Monaco this week to strengthen relations with potential European investment partners , though he does so at a time when EU countries lack confidence in him and do not embrace the idea of Chinese global leadership , according to a Pew Research Center survey . In all but one of the 10 European countries surveyed , majorities said in a spring 2018 survey that they had no confidence in Xi to do the right thing regarding world affairs . The Spanish were the most skeptical of him , with more than three-quarters ( 79 % ) lacking confidence , followed by the French ( 69 % ) , Greeks ( 64 % ) and Italians ( 64 % ) . A substantial portion of Europeans – roughly two-in-ten or more in Poland , Greece , Hungary and Italy – did not express an opinion on Xi .
A week after Donald Trump nominated Brett Kavanaugh to fill Justice Anthony Kennedy 's seat on the U.S. Supreme Court , the public is split in its early views of the nomination . Overall , 41 % think the Senate should confirm Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court , while about as many ( 36 % ) say they should not ; 23 % do not offer a view on the question .
The public is divided about whether Islam is more likely than other religions to encourage violence among its believers : 44 % say it is no more likely and 43 % say it is more likely .
Teens data is from from a survey we conducted between June 26 and September 24 , 2009 of 800 adolescents between ages 12 and 17 . Adult numbers are drawn from a survey we conducted between April 29 and May 30 , 2010 , among a sample of 2,252 adults ages 18 and older , including 744 reached on a cell phone .
Roughly half the public ( 52 % ) approves of his handling of the economy , while 39 % disapprove . Nearly three-quarters ( 74 % ) give a positive grade to Abe 's handling of relations with the United States . And more than half ( 54 % ) back his dealings with South Korea , while about a third ( 34 % ) disapprove . The public is less supportive of Abe 's handling of relations with China ( 46 % approve , 40 % disapprove ) .
Colleges are continuing to adapt amid new outbreaks in certain COVID-19 hotspots . Against this backdrop , the public has mixed views on whether providing in-person instruction this fall was a good idea . Half of all U.S. adults say colleges and universities that brought students back to campus made the right decision , while 48 % say they did not , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . A separate analysis of Census Bureau data shows that college enrollment among 18- to 24-year-olds dipped only slightly from last year . Views on whether colleges and universities made the right decision in bringing students back to campus are deeply divided along party lines , with Republicans and those who lean to the Republican Party more than twice as likely as Democrats and Democratic leaners to say bringing students back was the right decision . This partisan gap reflects a divide on the response to the coronavirus more broadly . Previous Pew Research Center surveys found that Republicans and Democrats have differed in their views about the severity of the public health crisis , restrictions on businesses and other public activities and mask wearing . In the current poll , 74 % of Republicans say schools that are currently providing in-person instruction made the right decision in bringing students back to campus this fall ; only 29 % of Democrats say the same .
Disclosures about government surveillance prompted some Americans to change the way they use technology . In a survey by the Center in late 2014 and early 2015 , 87 % of Americans said they had heard at least something about government surveillance programs . Among those who had heard something , 25 % said they had changed the patterns of their technology use `` a great deal '' or `` somewhat '' since the Snowden revelations .
Preliminary data suggest the total number of deportations is likely to have dropped again in fiscal 2015 . The number of deportations reported by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement was down by 25 % from fiscal 2014 to 2015 , from 315,943 to 235,413 . There was a sharper decrease in deportations of unauthorized immigrants apprehended within the U.S. rather than at the border . ( Data from ICE represent only a part of all deportations carried out by DHS and do not include deportations by U.S. Customs and Border Enforcement . ) In addition , border apprehensions have also declined . The 337,117 Border Patrol apprehensions in fiscal 2015 are the lowest since 1971 . One reason for the decline in apprehensions is an overall decline in the number of immigrants coming to the United States . The U.S. unauthorized immigrant population peaked in 2007 and has since leveled off . It 's a trend driven largely by changes in Mexican migration , the country of origin of about half ( 49 % ) of all unauthorized immigrants . Today more Mexicans are returning home to Mexico than arriving in the U.S. Family reunification was the most common reason cited by Mexicans for their return migration . Stricter border enforcement by the U.S. has also played a role in this trend .
The public focused most closely last week on two interrelated news stories – the nation 's struggling economy and the anti-Wall Street protests that have now spread far beyond their beginnings in New York City . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say their top story was reports about the condition of the U.S. economy . That 's about the same as the 18 % that say their top story was the Occupy Wall Street protests in New York and other cities , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Oct. 13 - 16 among 1,007 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . One week earlier , the protests did not rank high among the public 's top stories , but as the movement has spread – and coverage has ramped up – so has public interest . Altogether , the various economic news threads also topped coverage , accounting for about a quarter of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . More than a third of that ( 10 % of all coverage ) focused on the anti-Wall Street protests . That 's up from 7 % the previous week and just 2 % the week before that . News about the debate in Washington over jobs and deficit legislation accounted for 6 % of coverage and more general economic news accounted for another 8 % .
The roughly two-thirds of American adults who use social media sites express a relatively wide range of opinions on the political interactions they witness and take part in on these platforms . Many feel overloaded by political content and view their social media interactions with those they disagree with as a source of frustration and annoyance . At the same time , a substantial minority of users enjoy the ability to consume political content and engage in discussions with people on the other side of issues :
News about the 2008 presidential campaign topped the public 's interest and the media 's agenda last week . More than four-in-ten ( 42 % ) Americans cited the campaign as the story they were following most closely during a week in which the media devoted 58 % of all news coverage to campaign stories .
While many publics around the world continue to believe the U.S. acts unilaterally in world affairs , Indians see a more multilateral America . More than eight-in-ten ( 83 % ) say the U.S. takes the interests of countries like India into account when it makes foreign policy decisions – the highest percentage among the 21 nations surveyed outside the U.S . This view has become increasingly common among Indians over the last eight years – in 2002 , only 51 % said the U.S. considered their interests .
Obama 's 46 % job approval in December placed him between George W. Bush ( 30 % ) and Bill Clinton ( 55 % ) at similar points in their second terms in late 2007 and 1999 , respectively . It was also comparable to Reagan 's rating of 49 % in December 1987 . High-profile presidential scandals do n't always cause huge or lasting drops in public approval . Clinton first reached his all-time high job approval of 71 % in our February 1998 poll , amid the Monica Lewinsky scandal . Clinton again reached the 71 % mark in our late December 1998 poll , after his impeachment by the House of Representatives . Reagan 's approval rating dropped to 49 % in January 1987 during the Iran-Contra scandal , but he left office two years later with a 63 % rating .
A stellar analysis of the city 's troubled financial history by the Detroit Free Press concluded that Detroit 's bankruptcy was the result of decades of poor decisions by city leaders — failure to trim payroll in the 1960s and 1970s as the city 's population and property-tax base began to fall , heavy borrowing to cover operating expenses in recent years , mismanagement of urban redevelopment projects , paying $ 1 billion in pension bonuses from 1985 to 2008 , and much more . The paper distilled five decades ' worth of data into a series of graphics ( of which this is just one ) and accompanying text that clearly lay out a series of lost opportunities to avoid tumbling into a fiscal black hole .
The public holds very different views of three world leaders : Vladimir Putin , Benjamin Netanyahu and Angela Merkel . By 69 % to 19 % more hold an unfavorable than favorable view of Russian President Vladimir Putin ; just 13 % do not offer a rating of him . Views of Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are mixed : 34 % view him favorably , while about as many ( 32 % ) view him unfavorably and 33 % are unable to offer a rating . German Chancellor Angela Merkel is not well known to the public : 48 % do not offer a rating of her ; 29 % view her favorably , while 23 % view her unfavorably . Nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) Democrats and Democratic leaners hold an unfavorable view of Putin , compared with a smaller majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 61 % ) . Over the last two years , favorable ratings of Putin have increased among Republicans , while unfavorable ratings of him have gone up among Democrats . ( For more , see : `` U.S. public sees Russian role in campaign hacking , but is divided over new sanctions , '' released Jan. 10 , 2017 ) .
By race and ethnicity , more Asian immigrants than Hispanic immigrants have arrived in the U.S. in most years since 2009 . Immigration from Latin America slowed following the Great Recession , particularly for Mexico , which has seen both decreasing flows into the United States and large flows back to Mexico in recent years .
Obama 's job rating among independents has rebounded sharply from a low point in January . Currently , 45 % of independents approve of Obama 's job performance while 44 % disapprove . Last month , just 37 % approved and 56 % disapproved . Obama also has improved his standing with independent voters in a general election matchup with Mitt Romney . ( For more see , `` Santorum Catches Romney in GOP Race , '' Feb. 13 , 2012 . )
This analysis is based on a nationwide survey conducted online among 3,763 adults March 25-April 19 , 2016 . Of the total sample , it was possible to match the voting records of 3,309 registered voters from voter file records compiled by TargetSmart . This analysis is further restricted to the 2,758 registered voters 22 and older in 2016 ( those old enough to have been eligible to vote in 2012 ) . For further details about the survey and the match to the voter file , see the methodology . Despite being less interested in politics , drop-off voters were about as likely as consistent voters to say that people like them are able to improve their local communities , and most drop-off voters said an individual 's vote matters . In this sense , they stand out clearly from nonvoters . About eight-in-ten consistent voters ( 81 % ) said individual votes can make a difference and influence an election . A somewhat smaller majority ( 69 % ) of those who missed the 2014 midterm but turned out in 2012 and 2016 said the same . By contrast , fewer than half nonvoters ( 42 % ) – who did not cast ballots in 2012 , 2014 or 2016 – said a person 's vote can make a difference .
Since the very beginning of the U.S. coronavirus outbreak , Democrats have been far more likely than Republicans to see COVID-19 as a `` major threat '' to public health . In November , Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents were nearly twice as likely as Republicans and GOP leaners ( 84 % vs. 43 % ) to see the outbreak as a major threat to the health of the U.S. population , even as both sides agreed on the threat it poses to the national economy .
Americans ' pathways to news are changing , and mobile news is on the rise . Almost four-in-ten Americans ( 38 % ) often get news online today , behind only television ( 57 % ) ; radio ( 25 % ) and print newspapers ( 20 % ) trail both . Within the digital realm , mobile news consumption is rising rapidly : The proportion of Americans who ever get news on a mobile device has gone up from 54 % in 2013 to 72 % today . And among people who get news on both mobile and desktop , 56 % prefer mobile .
Since January , the Pew Research Center has asked its question on background checks three times . In the current survey , 81 % favor making private gun sales and sales at gun shows subject to background checks . This is not significantly different from February ( 83 % ) and down only slightly from January ( 85 % ) .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Dec. 1 - 16 among 2,000 Americans , finds a continuing decline in public perceptions of the situation in Iraq . Just half see the military effort in Iraq going very or fairly well , while nearly as many ( 46 % ) say things are not going well . A year ago , following the capture of Saddam Hussein , 75 % said things were going well in Iraq , while just 22 % saw the situation in negative terms . Public perceptions of the situation in Iraq were this low only for a short period following the Abu Ghraib prison scandal and the highly publicized murders of U.S. civilian contractors in Fallujah last April .
Young women , those 18 - 24 , experience certain severe types of harassment at disproportionately high levels : 26 % of these young women have been stalked online , and 25 % were the target of online sexual harassment . In addition , they do not escape the heightened rates of physical threats and sustained harassment common to their male peers and young people in general . Overall , men are somewhat more likely than women to experience at least one of the elements of online harassment , 44 % vs. 37 % . In terms of specific experiences , men are more likely than women to encounter name-calling , embarrassment , and physical threats .
For example , eight-in-ten ( 80 % ) Hispanics `` strongly agree '' that libraries are important because they promote literacy and a love of reading , a share similar to that of blacks ( 83 % ) , and somewhat higher than that of whites ( 76 % ) , who say the same . All three groups also strongly agree that public libraries play an important role in giving everyone a chance to succeed because they provide free access to materials and resources , though again the share is somewhat higher among Hispanics ( 75 % ) and blacks ( 77 % ) than it is among whites ( 70 % ) . And 71 % of Hispanics , 69 % of whites and 73 % of blacks strongly agree that public libraries improve the quality of life in a community .
Such a move , representing a major shift change in relations with a country that had been a key ally in the Mideast , generally has support among the U.S. public , if recent polls are an indicator . A Pew Research Survey conducted in August found that 51 % of Americans believed the U.S. should cut off military aid to Egypt to pressure the government there to end the violence against anti-government protesters while 26 % said it would be better to continue military aid as a means of maintaining U.S. influence .
Eight-in-ten Hispanics say local police should not be involved in identifying undocumented or illegal immigrants . According to the Pew Hispanic Center 's 2008 National Survey of Latinos , 81 % of Hispanics said enforcement of immigration laws should be left mainly to the federal authorities while just 12 % said local police should take an active role . Among the general public , opinion is split—in 2007 , half ( 49 % ) of non-Hispanics said enforcement should be left mainly to federal authorities , while 45 % said local police should take an active role .
The presidential campaign dominated news coverage last week , with roughly half of the newshole ( 49 % ) devoted to the tight nomination contests in both political parties , according to the Project for Excellence in Journalism 's tracking of news content . Public interest in the campaign has increased but campaign news has not necessarily dominated the public 's focus to the same extent . Just over a third ( 34 % ) say the campaign is the story they followed most closely last week , up 12 points from early December ( Dec. 2 - 7 ) . But many also say the assassination of Benazir Bhutto ( 21 % ) , the tiger attack at the San Francisco zoo ( 10 % ) , and news from Iraq ( 10 % ) were the stories they followed most closely .
Much of that increase , however , is concentrated in a handful of retail sectors . Last year , for example , nearly a third of the retail employment surge ( 202,400 jobs ) occurred at clothing and accessories stores , and more than a quarter ( 177,400 jobs ) at department stores . The pattern appeared to continue last month : Clothiers and department stores accounted for more than half of November 's retail job gains , adding 121,600 and 114,700 jobs respectively . Other good places to seek holiday employment were general merchandise stores ( 78,600 jobs added between October and December 2013 , about 13 % of the total increase ) and sporting goods , hobby , book and music retailers ( 65,800 jobs , or 11 % of last season 's total increase ) . Those patterns have n't changed much over the past decade , though department stores account for less of the seasonal surge than they used to ( as well as a smaller share of retail employment generally ) and clothing/accessories stores account for more . While the pre-holiday hiring surge is impressive , the post-holiday drop is even more dramatic . Retail payrolls typically fall 5 % to 6 % between December and February , as retailers with disappointing holiday sales lay off staff and close unprofitable stores . ( This past year , retailers shed a combined 880,000 jobs in the two months after Christmas . ) For some struggling retailers , a bad holiday season can be the final push over the ledge : Circuit City announced in January 2009 it was closing down ; Borders filed for bankruptcy in February 2011 .
Millennials – whether living with their parents or not – are moving significantly less often than earlier generations of young adults . Among 25- to 35-year-old Millennials who were living at home in 2016 , 91 % reported that they resided at the same address one year earlier . This does not preclude the possibility that the young adult moved out and `` boomeranged '' back in the intervening year ( perhaps multiple times ) ; the data simply indicate that they lived with their parent or parents one year earlier as well .
Since Maduro took office in 2013 , Venezuelans ' evaluations of their national economy have worsened . Today , 83 % say the current economic situation in Venezuela is bad , including 60 % who say that it 's very bad . Those ages 18 to 29 ( 86 % ) are slightly more likely than people 50 and older to say the economy is in poor shape ( 75 % ) . Views of the national economy are also heavily colored by partisanship . Whereas about six-in-ten PSUV supporters say the economy is in poor shape ( 59 % ) , nine-in-ten non-PSUV supporters say the same .
As the economy has soured , many Latinos are adjusting their economic behaviors . More than seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) report that they have cut back spending on eating out . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) say they planned to curtail holiday spending . More than one-fourth ( 28 % ) report that they helped a family member or friend with a loan . The National Survey of Latinos 2008 , Economics and Politics , focuses on Hispanic adults ' views of the state of the economy , their own personal finances and housing market conditions . It also asks about the sending of remittances in the past year and how Latinos have changed their economic behaviors in the economic downturn . The survey was conducted from November 11 through November 30 , 2008 , among a randomly selected , nationally representative sample of 1,540 Hispanic adults . The survey was conducted in both English and Spanish . The margin of error for the full sample is plus or minus 3.0 percentage points .
Mothers who do work are paying more than ever for child care . In inflation-adjusted dollars , average weekly child care expenses for families with working mothers who paid for child care ( 24 % of all such families ) rose more than 70 % from 1985 ( $ 87 ) to 2011 ( $ 148 ) , according to research by the Census Bureau . For those families , child-care expenses represent 7.2 % of family income , compared to 6.3 % in 1986 ( the earliest year available ) . But child care costs hit families at different income levels very differently , according to the census data . In 2011 , for instance , families with employed mothers whose monthly income was $ 4,500 or more paid an average of $ 163 a week for child care , representing 6.7 % of their family income . Families with monthly incomes of less than $ 1,500 paid much less – $ 97 a week on average — but that represented 39.6 % of their family income .
Other religious groups also have a higher percentage of college graduates than the full sample of more than 35,000 U.S. adults surveyed in the 2014 Religious Landscape Study , among whom 27 % completed university . They include Buddhists and members of the Presbyterian Church ( U.S.A. ) – both at 47 % – as well as Orthodox Christians ( 40 % ) , Muslims ( 39 % ) and Mormons ( 33 % ) .
And , as in Taiwan , many other publics in the Asia-Pacific region see economic engagement with both the U.S. and China in positive terms . For example , pluralities or majorities in Australia , the Philippines and Indonesia say their country 's current economic ties with the U.S. and China are good . While opinions in Japan , India and South Korea are more divided , a quarter or more in each country say ties with both Beijing and Washington are good .
By and large , European Muslims – irrespective of their views about the riots per se – say they are sympathetic to the youths from immigrant and working class suburbs in France who felt frustrated by their place in French society . Muslims in Great Britain are most sympathetic ( 75 % so indicate ) followed by those in France and Spain ( 63 % of Muslims in both countries ) .
Non-broadband adopters can also face substantial challenges engaging in a number of digital job-seeking activities . For instance , 37 % of non-broadband adopters indicate that it would not be easy for them to create a professional resume if they needed to do so ; 30 % would find it difficult to contact an employer via email , or fill out an online job application ; and 27 % would have a hard time finding online lists of available jobs in their area .
In addition , there continue to be demographic differences in opinions about the law . By about two-to-one , women are more likely to say they approve ( 61 % ) than disapprove ( 31 % ) of the law . Men are more divided : Half approve , while 45 % disapprove .
Compared with 2015 , Republicans are far more likely to say that on the issues that matter to them , their side has been winning more than it has been losing . Still , while Republicans now control the White House and both houses of Congress , just 42 % say their side has been winning more often than it has been losing , while 46 % say the opposite , according to separate survey conducted June 8 - 18 among 2,504 adults . Two years ago , fully 79 % said their side was losing more often , compared with 14 % who said it was winning more . Democrats ' views are now almost identical to those of Republicans in 2015 . By 79 % to 15 % , Democrats say their side has been losing more often than it has been winning . Two years ago , 52 % of Democrats said their wide had been losing more often , while 40 % said it had been winning more often .
The Pew Research Center 's early-April survey found that the public 's spending priorities vary greatly depending on the specific issue . At that time , more prioritized spending to make health care more accessible and affordable over reducing the budget deficit by a 59 % -to-35 % margin , and a majority also prioritized increased education spending over deficit reduction by about the same margin . But when it came to spending more to develop new energy technology , opinion was divided more evenly , with 49 % prioritizing energy spending and 45 % deficit reduction .
Republicans and Democrats give their own parties only mixed ratings for how well they do in standing up for some traditional party positions , according to a national survey conducted by Pew Research Center earlier this month . Fewer than half ( 45 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the Democratic Party does an excellent or good job in standing up for such traditional party positions as `` protecting the interests of minorities , helping the poor and needy and representing working people . '' Slightly more ( 52 % ) say the party does only a fair or poor job in advocating these positions . Similarly , 43 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say their party does an excellent or good job in standing up for traditional GOP positions such as `` reducing the size of government , cutting taxes and promoting conservative social values , '' while 55 % say the party does only a fair or poor job . For Republicans , these views represent an improvement since 2015 , when just 27 % gave their party positive marks for standing up for its traditional positions . Democrats ' views of their party are little changed since then , but are less positive than in April 2009 , during Barack Obama 's first year as president . At that time , 55 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners gave their party positive ratings for standing up for its traditional positions .
Solid majorities of the general publics in Germany and Spain say that there is a natural conflict between being a devout Muslim and living in a modern society . But most Muslims in both of those countries disagree . And in France , the scene of recent riots in heavily Muslim areas , large percentages of both the general public and the Muslim minority population feel there is no conflict in being a devout Muslim and living in a modern society .
As COVID-19 cases have surged in the United States , young adults face a weakening labor market and an uncertain educational outlook . Between February and June 2020 , the share of young adults who are neither enrolled in school nor employed – a measure some refer to as the `` disconnection rate '' – has more than doubled , according to a new analysis of Census Bureau data by Pew Research Center . Most of the increase is related to job loss among young workers . At the beginning of 2020 , the share of Americans ages 16 to 24 who were `` disconnected '' from work and school mirrored rates from the previous year . But between March and April , the share jumped significantly , from 12 % to 20 % . By June 2020 , 28 % of youths were neither in school nor the workplace . While not the highest on record , June 's 28 % disconnection rate – which translates into 10.3 million young people – is the highest ever observed for the month of June , dating back to 1989 when the data first became available . This trend is one indicator of the difficulties young people are facing as they transition into adulthood during a global pandemic .
These are the principal findings of the Pew Research Center 's quadrennial post-election survey , conducted Nov 8 - 11 , 2012 among 1,206 voters who were originally interviewed before the election . The poll finds that , despite expressing strong criticisms of the campaign , most voters say they were satisfied with the choice of presidential candidates and believe they learned enough about them over the course of the campaign to make an informed choice . The presidential debates , in particular , stand out as positive – about two-thirds ( 66 % ) say they were helpful in learning about the candidates . Republican voters are about as likely as Democratic voters to say they learned enough about the candidates to make an informed choice and to have found the debates helpful .
More than half of teens have made at least one new friend online . Fully 57 % of teenagers have met a new friend over the internet , with nearly three-in-ten teens ( 29 % ) saying they have made more than five friends this way . But most of these relationships remain online , with a majority ( 77 % ) of all teenagers saying they have never met an online friend in person . Social media sites are popular places for teens to make friends online : About two-thirds ( 64 % ) of teens who have met a friend online say they have met new friends via a social networking site . Additionally , a majority of teens say social media platforms have made them feel more connected to their friends ' lives and feelings . Roughly eight-in-ten social-media-using teens ( 83 % ) say that sites like Facebook or Instagram make them feel more connected to what is happening in their friends ' lives , while 70 % say these social platforms make them feel more in tune with their friends ' feelings .
Hispanic voters generally believe the U.S. government should play a role in providing health care to Americans . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say it is the federal government 's responsibility to make sure all Americans have health care coverage , including 38 % who favor a national health insurance system and 32 % who prefer a mix of private and government health care coverage . Around a quarter ( 28 % ) say it is not the government 's responsibility to make sure all Americans have health care coverage , though most in this group say they prefer to keep Medicare and Medicaid . Hispanic Democrats and Republicans have different views on the role government should play in providing health coverage . About eight-in-ten Hispanic Democratic voters ( 84 % ) say it is the government 's responsibility to ensure Americans have health care , with 49 % supporting a national health insurance system . Meanwhile , about half ( 51 % ) of Hispanic Republican voters say it is not the government 's responsibility to ensure universal coverage , though most in this group prefer to keep Medicare and Medicaid .
Overwhelming majorities of Republican voters in each of these groups now prefer Trump to Clinton in a general election matchup . However , the intensity of that support varies . Nearly all of those who were loyal supporters of Trump since December ( 98 % ) say they will vote for him against Clinton – and 91 % are certain they will do so . By contrast , a smaller share of voters who did not support Trump in any of these three surveys back him in the general election : 79 % do so , and only 53 % of those in this group say they are `` certain '' they will vote for Trump over Clinton .
Support for internet freedom is especially strong in Argentina ( 71 % very important ) , the U.S. , Germany and Spain ( each 69 % ) , and Chile ( 68 % ) . In many countries , young people , those with more years of education and high-income respondents tend to place a higher value on internet freedom .
The salary gap between public relations specialists and news reporters has widened over the past decade – to almost $ 20,000 a year , according to 2013 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data analyzed by the Pew Research Center . At the same time , the public relations field has expanded to a degree that these specialists now outnumber reporters by nearly 5 to 1 ( BLS data include part-time and full-time employees , but not self-employed . ) In 2013 , according to BLS data , public relations specialists earned a median annual income of $ 54,940 compared with $ 35,600 for reporters . In other words , journalists on average earn just 65 % of what those in public relations earn . That is a greater income gap than in 2004 when journalists were paid 71 cents of every dollar earned by those in public relations ( $ 43,830 versus $ 31,320 ) .
And queried on the possibility of using human embryos in the development of gene-editing techniques , a majority of adults ( 54 % ) – including two-thirds of those with high religious commitment – said this would make gene editing less acceptable to them , compared with just 11 % who said it would make it more acceptable .
In raw numbers , Turkey hosted more refugees than any other country last year : almost 1.6 million ( or about 2 % of the country 's population ) , including more than 1.5 million refugees from Syria and about 25,000 from Iraq , Iran and Afghanistan . ( The total number of refugees in Turkey has since grown to 2 million , but they 're not allowed to seek permanent asylum there . Some experts say Turkey 's policy contributes to the surge of refugees into European Union countries with more liberal asylum standards . ) Other nations adjoining conflict zones with significant refugee populations relative to their populations are Chad ( 4 % ) , which borders Sudan ; Djibouti , next to Somalia ( 2.5 % ) ; and Mauritania ( 2.2 % ) , which is sandwiched between two conflict areas , northern Mali and Western Sahara .
Half of Americans say U.S. and NATO troops should remain in Afghanistan until the situation has stabilized , while 43 % want them removed as soon as possible . By contrast , majorities in France ( 61 % ) , Italy ( 56 % ) , Germany ( 54 % ) and Britain ( 54 % ) say troops should be withdrawn , as do roughly half in Spain ( 48 % ) .
As the four-year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act approaches , the law remains unpopular with the public . Currently , 53 % disapprove of the 2010 health care law while 41 % approve of the law . Opinion of the measure is virtually unchanged since last September .
Other white Christians also are fairly confident about the president 's handling of the outbreak – though they are not as united in their support as white evangelicals are . About six-in-ten white Catholics ( 59 % ) and white Protestants who are not evangelical ( 62 % ) are at least somewhat confident that Trump is doing a good job , although only about half in each group say Trump has assessed the risks of the outbreak correctly . Roughly four-in-ten in these groups say he has n't taken the risks seriously enough .
Americans ' expectations for the year ahead include an effective treatment or cure for COVID-19 , as well as a vaccine to prevent the disease : 83 % and 73 % of U.S. adults , respectively , say these developments will definitely or probably occur . At the same time , 83 % of adults expect another coronavirus outbreak within the year , and 69 % expect the focus on the coronavirus to delay progress on other disease treatments .
As you can see , the spending on national defense accounted for 19 % of the federal budget in 2010 . This is more than was spent on the other three programs you can choose from on the news quiz : Medicare ( 12 % ) , interest on the debt ( 5.2 % ) and total non-defense discretionally spending ( 18.5 % ) — which includes all education spending plus numerous other programs .
By a ratio of two-to-one , more Americans say that jobs are difficult to find in their area ( 61 % ) , than say there are plenty of jobs available ( 30 % ) . This represents a substantial shift since November of last year , when fewer than half ( 48 % ) said jobs were difficult to find , and nearly as many ( 41 % ) said plenty were available .
The institution 's strongest backers are the Poles ( 72 % ) and the Hungarians ( 61 % ) . In many other nations , support is tepid . Just 27 % of the Greeks , 38 % of the French and 47 % of the Spanish have a favorable opinion of the EU . Notably , 44 % of the British view the EU favorably , including 53 % of the Scottish .
Most Americans feel worn out by the amount of news there is these days – a feeling that has persisted for several years now . About two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) feel worn out by the amount of news there is , while far fewer ( 32 % ) say they like the amount of news they are getting , according to a Pew Research Center survey of more than 12,000 U.S. adults conducted in October and November of last year – the first survey in the Center 's nearly yearlong Election News Pathways project . This feeling of news fatigue has n't escaped journalists either , some of whom have voiced their exhaustion with the news cycle and the seemingly endless stream of information . Americans ' exhaustion with the news has n't changed since early 2018 – the last time the Center asked this question – when 68 % felt worn out . And in a similar question asked several months before the 2016 presidential election between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton , nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) felt worn out by the amount of coverage of the campaign and candidates .
Social media users ages 18 to 49 are far more likely than those ages 50 and older to report using social media to check up on an ex-romantic partner . Seven-in-ten 18- to 29-year-olds report that they have used these platforms to check up on someone they used to date or be in a relationship with . That share is lower – though still a majority – among users ages 30 to 49 and falls sharply among those ages and 50 and older . Overall , about three-in-ten partnered adults who use social media say that these sites are at least somewhat important in showing how much they care about their partner ( 33 % ) or keeping up with what is going on in their partner 's life ( 28 % ) . But the level of importance that these users place on social media varies substantially by age . Among partnered social media users , 48 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say these platforms are very or somewhat important in how they show how much they care about their partner , compared with 28 % of those ages 30 and older who say this .
About a third ( 34 % ) say they followed news about the immigration debate very closely ; 11 % say this was the news they followed most closely . In early May , 38 % said they very closely followed news about Arizona 's new law giving police greater authority to question people they stop who they suspect might be illegal immigrants . Last week , immigration stories accounted for 3 % of the coverage analyzed by PEJ . Interest in the arrest by American law enforcement of 11 people suspected of being spies for Russia was similar to interest in Kagan 's confirmation hearings ; 15 % say they followed this story very closely . It was the story followed most closely by 2 % . Coverage of the alleged spy ring accounted for 8 % of the newshole .
Pew Research surveys have consistently shown strong public support for building the pipeline from Canada to the U.S. Gulf Coast , with 61 % of Americans favoring it . Fully 84 % of Republicans want to see the pipeline built , but Democrats are more divided , with 49 % in favor and 38 % opposed .
The high school dropout rate among U.S. Hispanics has fallen to a new low , extending a decades-long decline , according to recently released data from the Census Bureau . The reduction has come alongside a long-term increase in Hispanic college enrollment , which is at a record high . The Hispanic dropout rate was 10 % in 2016 , with about 648,000 Hispanics ages 18 to 24 – out of more than 6.5 million nationally in that age group – not completing high school and not enrolled in school . Just five years earlier , the rate had been 16 % . The overall high school dropout rate in the U.S. has also fallen substantially in recent decades , matching a record low of 6 % in 2016 . Hispanics have accounted for much of that decline . Since 1999 , the earliest year for which data on all major races and ethnicities are available , the dropout rate among Hispanics has fallen by 24 percentage points , compared with 9 points among blacks , 3 points among whites and 2 points among Asians . ( Hispanics , however , still have the highest dropout rate of these four groups . )
The priority given to reducing the budget deficit has risen seven points over the last year ; in early 2009 , 53 % of the public called deficit reduction a top priority compared with 60 % in the current survey . Both Republicans ( +10 points ) and Democrats ( +8 points ) have become more likely to say this is a top priority . Emphasis on the budget deficit has increased since 2002 , when it reached a low ebb following several years of budget surpluses ( from 1998 to 2001 the question was worded `` paying off the national debt '' ) . Currently , the priority given to reducing the budget deficit is not significantly higher than it was in 2008 ( 58 % top priority ) or 1997 ( 60 % top priority ) and it lags slightly behind the high of 65 % in December 1994 .
The rising number of convictions for unlawful reentry has altered the offense composition of federal offenders . In 2012 , immigration offenses—of which unlawful reentry is the largest category—represented 30 % of offenders , up from 5 % in 1992 . Unlawful reentry cases alone accounted for 26 % of sentenced federal offenders—second only to drug offenses in 2012 . This is up 13-fold since 1992 , when offenders sentenced for unlawful reentry made up just 2 % of sentenced offenders . These trends match the population growth in the Federal Bureau of Prisons system .
Eight years after the September 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon , the Pew Global Attitudes Project finds that support for Osama bin Laden has declined considerably among Muslim publics in recent years . Moreover , majorities or pluralities among eight of the nine Muslim publics surveyed this year say that suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilians can never be justified to defend Islam ; only in the Palestinian territories does a majority endorse such attacks .
Among unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. , there not only was a rise in the share with a college degree between 2007 and 2016 ; there also was a decline in the share without a high school diploma . In 2016 , 44 % of unauthorized immigrant adults ages 25 to 64 lacked a high school diploma , compared with 47 % in 2007 . In this age group , the change was more dramatic among those who came to the U.S. within the previous five years : 31 % lacked a high school diploma in 2016 , compared with 44 % in 2007 .
In the U.S. , 75 % believe gender equality is likely . An additional 14 % volunteer the response that women already have the same rights as men . One-in-ten or more in most Central and Eastern European nations , as well as Ukraine , Greece , Italy , Russia , Israel and Tunisia , agree that women and men already have equal rights .
Midterm voter turnout reached a modern high in 2018 , and Generation Z , Millennials and Generation X accounted for a narrow majority of those voters , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of newly available Census Bureau data . The three younger generations – those ages 18 to 53 in 2018 – reported casting 62.2 million votes , compared with 60.1 million cast by Baby Boomers and older generations . It 's not the first time the younger generations outvoted their elders : The same pattern occurred in the 2016 presidential election .
Roughly four-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners ( 38 % ) say they like the way Trump conducts himself as president , while 45 % say they `` have mixed feelings about '' his conduct and 16 % do not like it . Democrats continue to overwhelmingly say they do not like the way Trump conducts himself ( 85 % ) . Just 10 % say they have mixed feelings and 5 % say they like his behavior . These views are little changed since August .
Other major stories of the week included the 2008 presidential campaign , mounting tensions between the U.S. and Iran , the exposé on conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center , and the rescue of the Mt . Hood climbers . Public interest in the campaign edged up slightly from the previous week as did coverage – 22 % followed campaign news very closely and 12 % said this was their top story of the week . Campaign news made up 12 % of the newshole with a good deal of the coverage devoted to feuding between the Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama camps .
Smartphone owners are especially vigilant when it comes to mobile data management . Six in ten smartphone owners say they back up the contents of their phone ; half have cleared their phone 's search or browsing history ; and one third say they have turned off their phone 's location tracking feature . Yet despite these steps , smartphone owners are also twice as likely as other cell owners to have experienced someone accessing their phone in a way that made them feel like their privacy had been invaded . Owners of smartphones and more basic phones are equally likely to say their phone has been lost or stolen .
Those with high levels of religiosity also stand out when considering the possibility that development of gene editing would entail testing on human embryos . An overwhelming majority of those high in religious commitment ( 87 % ) say this would be taking medical technology too far ; just 11 % of this group says this would be appropriate . In contrast , 55 % of those low in religious commitment say that development of gene editing techniques that require testing on human embryos would be an appropriate use of medical technology . There are also differences in views about gene editing by religious affiliation , particularly if such techniques would involve embryonic testing . Just 11 % of white evangelical Protestants say that if development of gene editing techniques required testing on human embryos , it would be an appropriate use of medical technology .
Current views mark a shift from April 2016 . Two years ago , a 41 % plurality said the U.S. did too much to solve global problems ; fewer said the country did too little ( 27 % ) or about the right amount ( 28 % ) . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , nearly half ( 48 % ) say the U.S. does too little to solve world problems , up from just 22 % two years ago . There has been a 16-percentage-point decline in the share of Democrats who say the U.S. does too much to help solve world problems , and a 17-point decline in the share saying it does about the right amount . Over the same period , the share of Republicans and Republican leaners who say the U.S. does the right amount to solve world problems has more than doubled ( 42 % now , 17 % then ) . However , nearly four-in-ten Republicans ( 37 % ) say the U.S. does too much to solve world problems , down from 45 % in 2o16 . The share of Republicans who say the U.S. does too little in this regard has fallen 17 percentage points ( from 33 % to 16 % ) .
Although minorities ( including black , Hispanic , Asian American , Native American and multiracial populations ) make up over a third of the U.S. adult population ( 35 % ) , they make up only 22 % of the local television news workforce , according to a study by the Radio Television Digital News Association . The figure is even lower for daily newspapers , where only 13 % of newsroom employees are minorities , according to an annual survey of newsroom employment by the American Society of News Editors ( ASNE ) . These figures have changed little over the past two decades . The pattern in small versus large newsrooms also holds true for the local TV industry ( though minority employment is higher there than for newspapers ) . Minorities make up 29 % of the workforce in the top 25 markets , but 14 % in the smallest markets . When it comes to the leadership position of news director , there is rough parity in the top markets : Minority employees make up 29 % of the workforce and 26 % of the news directors , a 3-percentage-point gap . But outside these largest markets , TV newsrooms are considerably more likely to employ minorities than they are to have a non-white news director . For markets ranked 26 - 50 , minorities make up 25 % of the workforce but only 13 % of news directors . ( At newspapers , 10 % of supervisors are minorities , but ASNE did not break this out by circulation category . )
At least 778 executions took place last year in 22 countries , up from 682 in 2012 , according to Amnesty . Several countries , including Kuwait , Nigeria , Indonesia and Vietnam resumed use of the death penalty after several years without any executions .
A global median of 81 % among the nations surveyed hold such views . People also generally voice the opinion ( a median of 74 % ) that it is beneficial for their economy when foreign companies build new factories in their country .
Nearly three-quarters of Americans have used a shared , collaborative or on-demand online service . Pew Research Center asked American adults whether or not they have used 11 different services tied to the new digital economy , and fully 72 % say they have used at least one of them .
The Pew Research Center survey asked Americans whether they think solar geoengineering would make a difference in reducing the effects of climate change and what effects they believe these techniques will have on the environment overall . In contrast to public views on other specific policy proposals , opinion is closely divided – 45 % to 52 % – over whether solar geoengineering would make a difference in reducing the effects of climate change . Opinion on this issue is closely aligned with political affiliation . About two-thirds of liberal Democrats ( 64 % ) say these techniques would make a difference , while a large majority of conservative Republicans ( 78 % ) think they would not .
But in Katrina 's aftermath , there has been a rise in the number of Americans who view government as almost always wasteful and inefficient ­ from 47 % last December to 56 % currently . The increase has come among Democrats ( up seven percentage points ) and especially independents ( 14 points ) .
Older people in the UK are more likely to support reclaiming some powers from the EU . Almost three-quarters of British over the age of 50 take this position , compared with only 51 % of those ages 18 - 35 . Britons with less education are more likely than those with more education to favor Brussels returning some powers to national capitals ( 68 % vs. 56 % ) . And men are more likely than women to prefer this option .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center was conducted June 15 - 26 among 2,245 adults , including 1,655 registered voters . In a two-way contest , 51 % of registered voters support Clinton or lean toward her , while 42 % support or lean toward Trump . In a three-way contest , including Libertarian Party nominee Gary Johnson , 45 % favor Clinton , 36 % support Trump and 11 % back Johnson . As has been the case in recent campaigns , there are stark racial and ethnic differences in candidate support . Trump leads among white , non-Hispanic voters ( 51 % -42 % ) , while Clinton has an overwhelming advantage among African Americans ( 91 % -7 % ) .
About three-quarters of Canadians ( 76 % ) have confidence in President Obama to handle international affairs , versus only 23 % who express little or no confidence . This majority is less overwhelming than in 2009 , however , when nearly nine-in-ten Canadians ( 88 % ) had confidence in him . In the current survey , women ( 82 % ) are more likely than men ( 69 % ) to express confidence in Obama .
A number of measures in these surveys show Muslims feeling more embittered toward the West and its people than vice versa . They attribute more negative qualities to Western people than Westerners do to Muslims . They also rate Christians and Jews less favorably than Europeans and Americans rate Muslims . One of the startling findings of the survey is that most Muslims remain unconvinced that Arabs carried out the September 11th attacks . In Indonesia , 65 % , in Jordan 53 % , and in Turkey 59 % deny that the attacks were carried out by Arab men .
Voters who support Democratic candidates are similarly more likely to say they would be relieved ( 61 % ) than excited ( 35 % ) if their party gained control of the House . Somewhat more Democratic than Republican voters express excitement at the prospect of their party holding the House majority ( 35 % vs. 29 % ) .
Black History Month , which is celebrated every year in February , honors the achievements of black Americans throughout history . It 's also a time to reflect on larger themes of identity and community . Findings from Pew Research Center surveys conducted in recent years show that most black adults feel that they are part of a broader black community in the United States and see their race as important to how they think of themselves . In addition , in a Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2016 , most black adults ( 81 % ) said they felt at least somewhat connected to a broader black community in the U.S. , including 36 % who said they felt very connected to a black community . By contrast , 18 % said they did n't feel too connected or did n't feel connected at all . This finding holds true across genders and age groups . Black adults who said they feel strongly connected to a broader black community are more likely than those who do n't to have engaged with organizations dedicated to improving the lives of black Americans by donating money , attending events or volunteering their time . About six-in-ten black adults who said they feel very connected to a broader black community ( 58 % ) said they have done at least one of these activities in the 12 months prior to the survey , compared with 45 % among those who felt somewhat connected and 35 % among those who said they feel not too or not at all connected to a broader black community .
Overall , just 19 % of Indians express a positive view of Pakistan . And when asked which poses the greatest threat to India – Pakistan , China , the Lashkar-e-Taiba extremist group or Naxalite insurgents – a 47 % -plurality chooses Pakistan .
There are 12 foreign-born members of the 115th Congress – 11 representatives and one senator , Mazie Hirono , D-Hawaii , who was born in Japan . At least 52 other members were born in the United States or its territories to at least one immigrant parent , including 37 in the House and 15 in the Senate , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of biographical information from the Congressional Research Service , news stories , and members ' official websites and genealogical records through Aug. 17 . First- or second-generation immigrants in Congress represent 23 different states . California has by far the most : At least 19 of the state 's 53 House members – more than a third – are immigrants or the children of immigrants , as is Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris , whose mother emigrated to the U.S. from India and whose father emigrated from Jamaica . New York and Florida each have five first- or second-generation immigrants among their members of Congress ; Maryland and Illinois each have four . Countries and territories of origin vary for both first- and second-generation immigrant lawmakers . Seven of the 11 foreign-born House members emigrated from Latin American or Caribbean countries ( three from Mexico , two from Cuba , one from the Dominican Republic and one from Guatemala ) , while the other four hailed from different Asian countries and territories ( India , Japan , Taiwan and Vietnam ) . Among second-generation lawmakers , most have European , Latin American or Caribbean heritage : Their families come from 29 countries and territories , including Mexico ( 10 lawmakers ) , Cuba ( seven ) , Germany ( six ) , and Canada , India and Jamaica ( three each ) . The dozen members of the House and Senate who were born in another country account for 2 % of Congress – a slightly higher share than in the last Congress ( 1 % ) , but down substantially from earlier Congresses and far below the foreign-born share of the U.S. population as a whole ( 14 % ) . U.S.-born children of immigrants ( second-generation Americans ) make up another 12 % of the nation 's population .
But even as most parents are confident they can educate their child about proper online conduct , notable shares are concerned about the types of negative experiences their teen might encounter online . Roughly six-in-ten parents say they worry at least somewhat about their teen being harassed or bullied online ( 59 % ) or sending or receiving explicit images ( 57 % ) . In each case , about one-in-four parents say they worry a lot about one of these things happening to their child . These parental concerns tend to vary by race and ethnicity , as well as by a child 's gender . Among parents , whites and Hispanics are more likely than blacks to say they worry about their teen being cyberbullied . Hispanic parents also are more inclined than black parents to say they worry about their child exchanging explicit images . At the same time , parents of teen girls are somewhat more likely than those with a teenage boy to say they worry about their teen being bullied online ( 64 % vs. 54 % ) or exchanging explicit images ( 64 % vs. 51 % ) . ( For details on these parental concerns by demographic group , see Appendix A . )
‘ Anger ' at government and views of GOP candidates . Donald Trump is viewed more favorably by the nearly one-third of Republicans and leaners who are angry at government ( 64 % favorable ) than by those who are frustrated or content with government ( 48 % ) . Other GOP presidential candidates ( Marco Rubio , Ted Cruz and Ben Carson ) also get higher favorable ratings among Republicans who are angry at government than among non-angry Republicans , in part because they are better known among the `` angry '' group .
The Pew Research Center for the People & the Press has been tracking views of press performance since 1985 , and the overall ratings remain quite negative . Fully 66 % say news stories often are inaccurate , 77 % think that news organizations tend to favor one side , and 80 % say news organizations are often influenced by powerful people and organizations .
Overall , about as many followed news about the nation 's economy as the situation in Ukraine very closely ( 28 % Ukraine , 27 % economy ) . Nearly as many closely tracked news about the rollout of the 2010 health care law ( 23 % ) . By comparison , 19 % very closely followed news a week earlier ( Feb. 27-Mar . 2 ) about violence in Ukraine and the new government there . News interest last week about Russian troops in Crimea was highest among those with higher education levels . Roughly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) college graduates very closely followed the story , compared with about three-in-ten people ( 29 % ) with some college education and two-in-ten ( 20 % ) with a high school degree or less .
Levels of personal trust are associated with race and ethnicity , age , education and household income . To explore these connections , we asked questions about people 's general trust or distrust in others , their sense of the exploitative tendencies or fairness of others , and their assessment of the overall helpfulness or selfishness of others . Then , we built a scale of personal trust and distributed people along a spectrum from least trusting to most trusting . About a fifth of adults ( 22 % ) display consistently trustful attitudes on these questions , and roughly a third ( 35 % ) express consistently wary or distrustful views . Some 41 % hold mixed views on core personal trust questions . There are some notable demographic variations in levels of personal trust , which , even in these new contexts , follow historic trends captured by the Center and other researchers . The share of whites who show high levels of trust ( 27 % ) is twice as high as the share of blacks ( 13 % ) and Hispanics ( 12 % ) . The older a person is , the more likely they are to tilt toward more trustful answers . The more education Americans have , and the greater their household income , the greater the likelihood they are high on the personal trust spectrum . Those with less income and education are markedly more likely to be low trusters .
The news is not all bad , however . The trend in falling voter turnout among young people was reversed in 2004 . Among the voting age members of the DotNet cohort ( ages 18 - 29 ) , 49 % voted , an increase of 9 percentage points from 2000 . While young people still lag behind older adults , the rise in voter turnout among those ages 30 and older was a much more modest 3 percentage points – from 65 % to 68 % .
Hispanics made up 8 % of the nation 's voters , the same as in 2010 and 2006 , according to national exit polls . Measuring the demographics of voters is difficult using exit polls . Nonetheless , they can be useful when examining trends . Even as the Latino vote remained flat at 8 % , their share among eligible voters has grown from 8.6 % in 2006 to 11 % this year . ( The number of Hispanic eligible voters has reached more than 25 million today , up from 17.3 million in 2006 . ) This suggests , but does not show , that voter turnout among Latinos may not have surged this year . Indeed , some analysts say voter turnout among the general public nationwide may be equal or down from 2010 .
The Boomers who were in the labor force last year are different demographically from those out of the labor force – most of whom have retired . About four-in-ten Boomers in the labor force ( 38 % ) had at least a bachelor 's degree , versus 27 % of those not in the labor force . In addition , the labor force participants were slightly more likely to be non-Hispanic white and to reside in a metropolitan area .
A typical survey of the U.S. population consists of 1,000 adult respondents . This threshold reflects the way in which many researchers attempt to balance survey cost with survey quality : A national sample of 1,000 interviews yields reasonably good precision for major subgroups defined by gender , age , race and ethnicity ; much larger sample sizes will reduce the margin of error minimally but also make polls much more expensive . ( Pew Research Center samples are typically 1,500 respondents or more . ) A common rule of thumb used at Pew Research Center and elsewhere is to only report subgroup estimates if they are based on at least 100 respondents . In a perfectly representative survey with 1,000 adults , we would expect about 152 Hispanics , 117 blacks and just 54 Asians – with the latter subgroup falling well under the 100-respondent limit . The size of this Asian subgroup would simply be too small to make reliable estimates of the views and experiences of Asian American adults as a whole . For example , if we were to find that `` 50 % of U.S. Asians approve of … , '' the margin of error for the Asian subgroup of 54 respondents would be 13.3 percentage points – meaning that somewhere between 37 % and 63 % of Asians in the country would `` approve of '' the hypothetical topic . That range , or `` confidence interval , '' would simply be too large to report .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 72 % ) said in a May and June 2018 survey that it is somewhat or very likely that social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints they find objectionable . More than eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 85 % ) expressed this view , as did 62 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents .
As in recent years , a majority ( 62 % ) say immigrants strengthen the country because of their hard work and talents . Just 28 % say immigrants are a burden on the country because they take jobs , housing and health care , according to a new survey by Pew Research Center .
Within the Middle East , the migrant share of the region 's population grew from 7 % in 2005 to approximately 13 % in 2015 . Put another way , about one-in-ten people living in the Middle East today are international migrants or were forcibly displaced .
Turnout in the 2006 midterm election may well be higher than normal , given the level of interest expressed by voters . Today , 51 % of voters say they have given a lot of thought to this November 's election , up from 45 % at this point in 2002 and 42 % in early October of 1998 . Even in 1994 ­ a recent high in midterm election turnout ­ just 44 % of voters had thought a lot about the election in early October .
Smaller numbers report losing time at work or suffering property damage . A little more than one-in-ten ( 13 % ) claim to have lost time at work due to the earthquake and tsunami , while 10 % blame the disaster for damage to their home or property .
While it did n't ask specifically about parental leave , the Pew Research Center 's new survey on women and men in the workplace did find that about a third of both men and women said the ability to take time off for family needs was `` extremely important '' to them in a job . An analysis of global data compiled by the OECD shows that , compared with 37 other nations , the U.S. is an outlier when it comes to paid leave — it is the only nation that does not offer federal paid leave for new parents . ( Although many large companies in the U.S. provide some paid leave to employees . )
The most common view among the 10 European countries surveyed is that cultural diversity is neither a plus nor a minus in terms of quality of life . In no nation does a majority say increasing diversity is a positive for their country . At most , roughly a third in Sweden ( 36 % ) , the UK ( 33 % ) and Spain ( 31 % ) describe growing racial , ethnic and national diversity in favorable terms . By contrast , more than half in Greece ( 63 % ) and Italy ( 53 % ) say that growing diversity makes their country a worse place to live . Roughly four-in-ten Hungarians ( 41 % ) and Poles ( 40 % ) agree .
For instance , just 41 % in the United Kingdom express a favorable opinion of the U.S. , the lowest percentage registered in any Pew Research Center survey there . In France , only 31 % see the U.S. positively , matching the grim ratings from March 2003 , at the height of U.S.-France tensions over the Iraq War . Germans give the U.S. particularly low marks on the survey : 26 % rate the U.S. favorably , similar to the 25 % in the same March 2003 poll . Ratings for U.S. President Donald Trump have been low in these nations throughout his presidency , and that trend continues this year . Trump 's most negative assessment is in Belgium , where only 9 % say they have confidence in the U.S. president to do the right thing in world affairs . His highest rating is in Japan ; still , just one-quarter of Japanese express confidence in Trump .
As of this past summer , roughly two-thirds of Americans said they would like to see tighter e-cigarette regulations . In a July 2019 Gallup survey , 64 % of U.S. adults said laws and regulations covering e-cigarettes should be made more strict , while around a quarter ( 26 % ) said regulations should stay as they are now . Just 5 % said these laws and regulations should be less strict . Younger Americans – those ages 18 to 29 – were split on laws surrounding e-cigarettes : While roughly half ( 49 % ) said laws should be made more strict , 42 % said laws should be kept as they are . By comparison , roughly two-thirds or more of older adult groups said regulations covering e-cigarettes should be made more strict .
The number of registered vehicles per person peaked in 2006 , according to the analysis . The number of vehicles per licensed driver peaked in 2001 , 2005 and 2006 . See fewer cars parked in driveways these days ? Vehicles per household peaked in 2001 , 2005 and 2006 . In contrast to the number of registered vehicles , the recent peaks in rates—that is , the number of registered vehicles per person , licensed driver and household— '' have better chances of being long-term peaks , '' he writes . Future trends in rates , he adds , `` will be influenced by the extent to which the relevant societal changes turn out to be permanent . ''
News reports about swine flu and the availability of a vaccine were followed very closely by about a quarter of the public ( 26 % ) , while 9 % named news about swine flu as their top story of the week . The media devoted 3 % of newshole to the story . The public paid relatively little attention to reports about CIA interrogation methods and an investigation into alleged abuse of terrorism suspects . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they followed the story very closely and just 3 % name news about CIA interrogation methods as their top story of the week .
While coverage of the presidential campaign accounted for 7 % of newshole , on average , during the first 10 weeks of 2007 , so far in 2011 , campaign news has accounted for just 1 % of coverage , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism .
The assassination captured the nation 's attention , with 90 % of the public later recalling that they saw the event `` at about the time '' it happened , according to a 1992 survey by the Times Mirror Center for the People and the Press . Among people who were born in 1957 or before , the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy , the Moon landing and the funeral of John F. Kennedy ( born in 1952 or before ) were recalled by virtually all of those old enough to remember the events .
Dramatic events in London and Scotland last week attracted a large news audience . Roughly a third of the public paid very close attention to news that British police had found and defused two car bombs in London , and another 31 % followed the story fairly closely . Fully 21 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other — making it the most closely followed news story of the week .1 Interest in the attempted bombings did not reach the level of last summer 's major terrorism scare . In August 2006 , 54 % of the public paid very close attention to news about a foiled plot to blow up planes flying from England to the U.S. using liquid explosives . Last week 's events in the United Kingdom received a substantial amount of news coverage in the U.S . Although the story did not break until Friday morning , it was the fourth most heavily covered news story of the week , accounting for 5 % of the overall coverage . For Friday alone , the London story represented 27 % of the news coverage for all sectors and 63 % of cable news .
The number of people killed in religion-related terrorist attacks in Kenya has dramatically increased in recent years . According to reports analyzed by the Pew Research Center as part of our ongoing global study of religious restrictions and hostilities , more than 300 people were killed , injured or displaced as a result of religion-related terrorist attacks in Kenya in 2012 , more than twice as many as in 2011 and more than a five-fold increase from 2010 . In general , social hostilities involving religion , defined by Pew Research as concrete acts of religious violence ranging from hate crimes to religion-related terrorism and war , are much higher in Kenya than in sub-Saharan Africa as a whole . In 2012 , Kenya had nearly four times the level of social hostilities ( 8.3 on a scale of 10 ) as the median level among the 48 countries in the region ( 2.1 ) . The Pew Research Social Hostilities Index takes into account the level and intensity of hostilities , including sectarian violence , religion-related mob violence and so-called honor killings , where the perpetrators are motivated by religion .
Moreover , there is a strong desire for specific democratic rights and institutions . About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) considered it very important to live in a country with a judicial system that treats everyone in the same way , while roughly six-in-ten said it is very important to have a free press ( 62 % ) ; free speech ( 60 % ) ; and honest , competitive elections with at least two political parties ( 58 % ) .
By the end of the week , Palin and Clinton were the second and third-leading newsmakers of the week from Nov. 10 - 16 , trailing only the president-elect . These are among the findings of the first full post-election week of the News Coverage Index for Nov. 10 - 16 , a weekly study of the media agenda from the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism .
Overall , the public expresses modest levels of trust in major technology companies to do what is right . Only 3 % of Americans think these companies can be trusted to do what is right just about all of the time , notably smaller than the share ( 14 % ) that thinks they can hardly ever be trusted . In total , some 28 % of Americans think these companies can be trusted to do the right thing most of the time or always , while a total of 72 % think they can be trusted to do the right thing some of the time or hardly ever .
Mobile advertising revenue 's rapid growth also continued in 2018 , increasing from $ 57 billion in 2017 to $ 71 billion . Although desktop advertising revenue also saw an increase in 2018 , mobile advertising revenue comprised almost two-thirds ( 65 % ) of all digital advertising revenue .
While Brazilians express confidence in Lula 's overall approach to world affairs , they largely disagree with him on how to handle Iran and its nuclear weapons program . The president has opposed additional international economic sanctions against the Islamic Republic . Yet , of the 85 % of Brazilians who oppose Iran acquiring nuclear weapons , nearly two-thirds approve of tighter sanctions to try to prevent it from developing such weapons ; 31 % oppose tougher economic sanctions against Iran .1 Majorities of those who oppose a nuclear-armed Tehran in 18 of the other 21 countries surveyed also endorse such a measure . In addition , most ( 54 % ) Brazilians who do not want to see a nuclear-armed Iran are willing to consider the use of military force to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons ; a third say avoiding a military conflict with Iran , even if it means it may develop these weapons , should be the priority .
Republicans are less positive in their views of undocumented immigrants . Still , nearly two-thirds of Republicans ( 64 % ) say undocumented immigrants in the U.S. mostly take jobs citizens do not want , and a narrow majority ( 54 % ) say they are as honest and hardworking as U.S. citizens .
Significant growth in the number of Latino eligible voters has helped make the U.S. electorate more racially and ethnically diverse than ever this year . According to Pew Research Center projections , a record 27.3 million Latinos are eligible to cast ballots , representing 12 % of all eligible voters .
Views of the U.S. in Taiwan echo the views in six countries in the Asia-Pacific region included in a separate 2019 Pew Research Center survey . Around seven-in-ten or more hold favorable attitudes toward the U.S. in the Philippines , South Korea , Taiwan and Japan . Australians offer more tempered views , though half still hold the U.S. in a positive regard . More in India and Indonesia have favorable than unfavorable assessments , though sizable portions do not offer an opinion . While global views of China are somewhat mixed , attitudes throughout much of the Asia-Pacific – including Taiwan – tend to be more negative . Like in Taiwan , only about a third of Filipino , Indonesian , Australian and South Korean adults hold positive opinions of China .2 Though 23 % of Indians share this view , a sizable percentage do not answer this question .
As marriage rates have fallen , the number of U.S. adults in cohabiting relationships has continued to climb , reaching about 18 million in 2016 . This is up 29 % since 2007 , when 14 million adults were cohabiting , according to U.S. Census Bureau data . Roughly half of cohabiters – those living with an unmarried partner – are younger than 35 . But an increasing number of Americans ages 50 and older are in cohabiting relationships , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of the Current Population Survey . In fact , cohabiters ages 50 and older represented about a quarter ( 23 % ) of all cohabiting adults in 2016 . Since 2007 , the number of cohabiting adults ages 50 and older grew by 75 % . This increase is faster than that of other age groups during this time period and is driven in part by the aging of Baby Boomers . In 2016 , 4 million adults ages 50 and older were cohabiting – up from 2.3 million in 2007 . By comparison , 8.9 million adults ages 18 to 34 were cohabiting last year , up from 7.2 million . While cohabitation is rising , cohabiters still make up relatively small portions of each age group – particularly among adults ages 50 and older . In total , 7 % of U.S. adults were cohabiting in 2016 . Just 4 % of adults 50 and older were cohabiting . By comparison , 14 % of Americans ages 25 to 34 were cohabiting – the highest share among the age groups analyzed here . Roughly one-in-ten adults ages 18 to 24 and 35 to 49 were cohabiting .
Today , 65 % of voters say they are fearful about the state of the country , little changed since June . A smaller majority ( 57 % ) say they feel angry , down from 73 % five months ago .
With less than two weeks to go before the start of the presidential nominating conventions , Barack Obama 's lead over John McCain has disappeared . Pew 's latest survey finds 46 % of registered voters saying they favor or lean to the putative Democratic candidate , while 43 % back his likely Republican rival . In late June , Obama held a comfortable 48 % -to-40 % margin over McCain , which narrowed in mid-July to 47 % to 42 % .
U.S. adults believe that partisans can not agree on basic facts , according to the same survey . The vast majority of Americans ( 85 % ) say that Trump and Biden supporters can not agree on basic facts about important issues facing the country – similar to findings about Republican and Democratic voters in 2018 . And eight-in-ten say they think Americans tend to get different facts depending on which news sources they turn to . On both measures , Trump and Biden supporters largely agree . About nine-in-ten in each group say they disagree on basic facts ( 89 % of Trump voters say this , as do 91 % of Biden voters ) . And more than eight-in-ten in each group say that Americans often get different facts depending on which news sources they turn to ( 89 % of Trump voters say this , as do 84 % of Biden voters ) .
Baby Boomers and other older Americans are no longer the majority of voters in U.S. presidential elections . Generation Zers , Millennials and Generation Xers cast 69.6 million votes in the 2016 general election , a slight majority of the 137.5 million total votes cast , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . Meanwhile , Boomers and older voters represented fewer than half of all votes for the first time . The shift has occurred as Millennials accounted for a growing share of the electorate and as those in the Silent and Greatest generations aged and died .
Despite the prominence of immigration issues in last year 's presidential campaign , U.S. Hispanics do not rate them a top issue for the new administration or Congress , a pattern similar to that found in previous years of polling by Pew Research Center . According to the new survey , 46 % say dealing with the issue of immigration should be a top priority for the new administration and Congress in 2017 , ranking last among the five priorities tested in the new survey . Instead , Hispanics identify education as a top priority issue for the new Trump administration and for the new Congress among those tested . Fully 73 % say improving the educational system should be a top priority in 2017 . Other top priorities include defending the country from future terrorist attacks ( 69 % ) and strengthening the nation 's economy ( 66 % ) . Following these three issues is reducing health care costs ( 54 % ) .
Public attitudes toward Congress remain very negative . Currently , just 41 % of the public expresses a favorable opinion of Congress , with 51 % unfavorable ; that is identical to opinions of Congress in July 2007 . Views of Congress were more positive in January 2007 , shortly after the Democrats won control of the House and Senate ( 53 % favorable vs. 38 % unfavorable ) . In historical terms , positive opinions of Congress are about as low as they were in October 1995 , during the standoff between former President Clinton and the GOP-led Congress that led to a government shutdown . In October 1995 , 42 % expressed favorable views compared with 55 % who held unfavorable opinions .
The survey asked those who say there is some other reason why they do n't expect to have more children or to have children at all to elaborate on those reasons . The responses of childless adults can not be analyzed due to the small number of respondents in this category , but among parents who do n't expect to have more kids , the most common response is that either they or their partner is unable to have children due to a medical reason ( 41 % of parents ages 18 to 49 say this ) . Age is the second-most cited reason , given by 25 % of these respondents . A small share ( 6 % ) cites financial reasons , such as the cost of child care , and 3 % say they either do n't have a partner or that their partner does n't want to have more children .
Iran is viewed negatively by people in many countries around the world . In a survey of 14 advanced economies from this summer , a median of about seven-in-ten expressed unfavorable views of Iran , while only about two-in-ten hold a favorable view . A median of roughly one-in-ten expressed no opinion . In all 14 countries surveyed , majorities had negative impressions of Iran .
As of Nov. 23 , Trump had granted clemency 44 times , including 28 pardons and 16 commutations . That 's the lowest total of any president since at least William McKinley , who served at the turn of the 20th century . Obama , by comparison , granted clemency 1,927 times during his eight-year tenure , including 212 pardons and 1,715 commutations . The only modern president who granted clemency almost as infrequently as Trump is George H.W . Bush , who granted 77 pardons and commutations in his single term .
Younger adults are somewhat more likely than older adults to say that marijuana use should be legal for both medical and recreational use . About two-thirds ( 69 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 say it should be legal for both types of use , compared with 48 % of those ages 65 and older . Most adults 65 and over nonetheless favor legalization in some form .
Across five specific areas , majorities of voters gave negative marks to a possible Trump presidency : 61 % said that if Trump were elected , he would definitely or probably not set a high moral standard for the presidency ; 57 % said he would not improve U.S. global standing ; 55 % said he would not improve the way government works and the same percentage said he would not run an open and transparent administration . About half ( 52 % ) said he would use his office to improperly enrich himself or friends and family . Clinton also was viewed quite negatively ; in fact , nearly two-thirds of voters ( 65 % ) said she was unlikely to run an open and transparent administration ( 55 % said this about Trump ) . Clinton also was viewed as less likely than Trump to improve the way government works . However , more voters thought Clinton ( 48 % ) than Trump ( 42 % ) would improve U.S. standing around the world .
Wealth gaps between upper-income families and lower- and middle-income families are at the highest levels recorded . Although lower- and middle-income families overall experienced gains in wealth in recent years , they were not large enough to make up for the losses these families sustained during the recession . Thus , in 2016 , the median wealth of lower-income families was 42 % less than in 2007 and the median wealth of middle-income families was 33 % lower . Indeed , the net worth of these families in 2016 – $ 10,800 for lower-income families and $ 110,100 for middle-income families – was comparable to 1989 levels . The experience of upper-income families is markedly different . Their losses in the recession were smaller and their recovery was stronger . By 2016 , upper-income families had a median wealth of $ 810,800 , 10 % more than prior to the recession in 2007 . Moreover , the median wealth of upper-income families is at the highest level since the Federal Reserve started collecting these data in 1983 . Consequently , the recession drove wealth inequality between upper-income families and lower- and middle-income families to the highest levels recorded . In 2016 , the median wealth of upper-income families was seven times that of middle-income families , a ratio that has doubled since 1983 . Upper-income families also had 75 times the wealth of lower-income families in 2016 , compared with 28 times the wealth in 1983 .
Survey items were chosen for inclusion if they were asked of the total sample and not only the Web-mode panelists . Items were excluded if they had complex skip patterns based on previous waves ' responses . A few items were excluded if they , or an item very similar to them , were already asked in a previous wave . The items chosen for the analysis of differences among subgroups in the population are frequently used measures across the major research domains at Pew Research Center . For this analysis two weights were created for each wave of data collection . The first weights the total sample , including the Web and mail panelists , to demographic targets of all U.S. adults living in households . The second weights only the Web-mode portion of the panel to these same total population targets . Additional information about the weighting , including the sources of the targets , can be found in the methods section at the end of this report .
Reflecting the modest share of all Twitter users they represent , older adults on Twitter do n't produce a great deal of the total content . But this group is much more inclined to talk about national politics in their tweets than younger users . Those ages 65 and older produce just 10 % of all tweets from U.S. adults , but these older Twitter users contribute 33 % of tweets related to national politics . More broadly , those 50 and older produce 29 % of all tweets but contribute 73 % of tweets mentioning national politics . By contrast , 18- to 29-year-olds produce 20 % of all public tweets from U.S. adults , but just 4 % of political tweets .
Roughly seven-in-ten Hispanic adults ( 69 % ) disapprove of Trump 's job performance , as does an even larger majority of Black adults ( 86 % ) . Disapproval among Black adults is especially deeply held : 70 % say they very strongly disapprove of his job performance ; in March , 58 % said this . Younger adults remain much more critical of Trump 's performance than older adults . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 disapprove of how Trump is handling his job . The oldest adults ( ages 65 and older ) are as likely to say they approve ( 48 % ) as disapprove ( 48 % ) of Trump . Disapproval of Trump has edged higher among all age groups since earlier this year .
About half of Russians ( 51 % ) say their country should intervene in neighboring countries if there are threats to ethnic Russians there . People who express confidence in Putin are more likely to support such interventions ( 55 % ) than are those who have little or no confidence in the president ( 36 % ) .
Nearly identical percentages of Republicans ( 57 % ) , Democrats ( 55 % ) and independents ( 56 % ) say that Iraq 's internal rivalries have had a lot to do with the rising violence . Republicans are more likely than Democrats to attribute current violence in Iraq to the withdrawal of U.S. combat troops from the country . Half of Republicans say the U.S. troop withdrawal contributed a lot to the current situation , compared with 39 % of independents and just 29 % of Democrats .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 72 % ) believe that all , almost all or most of what they do online or while using a cellphone is being tracked by advertisers , technology firms or other companies , according to the June 2019 survey . Close to half of Americans ( 47 % ) said the same about their online activities being tracked by the government .
Most of the increase in negative opinions has come among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . Today , 25 % say Trump has made race relations worse , while 17 % say he has made them better and 53 % say he has not made a difference .
Donald Trump 's job approval continues to remain more negative than positive . Currently , 39 % of the public approves of the way Trump is handling his job as president , while 55 % disapprove . Ratings of Trump are virtually unchanged from April ( 39 % approved ) and February ( also 39 % ) .
Ask Democrats when a Republican occupies the Oval Office if the president can do a lot to control gas prices and a big majority will answer yes . But when the president is a Democrat , well under half of all Democrats say the chief executive has any real power to influence fuel costs .
A majority of Americans ( 62 % ) say that when thinking about the fundamental design and structure of government , significant changes are needed to make it work for current times ; 37 % say the design and structure of government serves the country well and does not need significant changes . These overall opinions have changed little since 2018 , but Republicans and Democrats have moved in opposing directions . In 2018 , half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents said significant changes to American government were needed ; today , that share has dropped to 41 % . A majority ( 57 % ) now says no significant changes are needed . At the same time , Democrats have grown more likely to say significant changes are needed . In 2018 , 68 % of Democrats said substantial change was necessary . Today , 79 % of Democrats say changes are needed to make government work for current times . Though partisanship is the biggest factor in views on whether the fundamental design and structure of American government needs significant changes , there are similar demographic divisions within each partisan coalition – especially among Republicans .
Yet Americans also have long expressed positive views of the federal government 's performance in several specific areas . And majorities want the government to play a major role on everything from keeping the country safe from terrorism to ensuring access to health care and alleviating poverty . Among the public overall , majorities say the government does a very good or somewhat good job keeping the country safe from terrorism ( 72 % ) , responding to natural disasters ( 62 % ) , ensuring safe food and medicine ( 62 % ) , strengthening the economy ( 54 % ) and maintaining infrastructure ( 53 % ) . Americans are far more critical of how the government handles several other issues , including managing the immigration system ( just 34 % say it does a good job ) , helping people get out of poverty ( 36 % ) and effectively handling threats to public health ( 42 % ) .
Americans are now more positive about the job opportunities available to them than they have been since the economic meltdown , when views of the job market took a nosedive . Today 's more upbeat views rank among some of the best assessments of the job market in Pew Research Center surveys dating back 15 years . In a new Pew Research Center survey on issues and the state of the 2016 campaign , 44 % say there are plenty of jobs available in their community , while slightly more ( 51 % ) say jobs are difficult to find . That 's much more optimistic than March 2010 ratings , when evaluations of job availability bottomed out , with 85 % saying jobs in their community were difficult to find . Back then , just 10 % said there were plenty of jobs available . As recently as last January , the share who said jobs were hard to find outweighed the share who said there were plenty available by a 57 % -36 % margin . The rebound in ratings of the job market puts them back around where they were in November 2007 , just before the start of the recession , when 41 % said plenty of jobs were available and 48 % said they were difficult to find . The only time in the past 15 years when ratings of the job situation were more positive than they are now was in June 2001 , when the unemployment rate stood at 4.5 % . At that time , about as many said jobs were plentiful in their community ( 42 % ) as said they were difficult to find ( 44 % ) . ( Pew Research Center trends do not reach back to the late 1990s , a period of economic expansion and wage growth . )
On one hand , Americans continued to support the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , at least in principle , but had concerns about its scope and implementation . A Gallup poll in October 1964 reported that the public approved of the new law by nearly two-to-one ( 58 % to 31 % ) . And in April 1965 , Gallup found a whopping 76 % in favor of a then-proposed equal rights voting law .
In the wake of Russia 's annexation of Ukraine 's Crimea region , public concern about Russia has increased , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Even so , when given the choice , more describe Russia as a serious problem but not an adversary ( 43 % ) than say it represents an adversary ( 26 % ) . Just 22 % say Russia is not much of a problem .
Online career and job-related resources : Some 62 % of local libraries offer such resources , according to IPAC , and 41 % of adults in our survey say they know their local libraries have such material . Still , 38 % say they do not know if such resources are offered by their local libraries and another 21 % say their libraries do not offer career- and job-related resources .
Iran 's image is overwhelmingly negative across much of the world . Unfavorable opinions of Iran are especially pronounced in Europe , with majorities ranging from 88 % in France to 59 % in Britain saying they have a negative opinion of Iran . Russia is the one outlier in the region , with only a 49 % -plurality expressing an unfavorable view of Iran . In North America , about seven-in-ten in the U.S. ( 69 % ) and Canada ( 70 % ) have an unfavorable opinion of Iran . To the south , most countries surveyed in Latin America share this negative assessment of Iran , including at least half in Brazil ( 72 % ) , Chile ( 55 % ) , Mexico ( 52 % ) and Venezuela ( 51 % ) .
Opinions about whether Islam is more likely than other religions to promote violence have fluctuated since 2002 . In March of that year , 51 % said that Islam does not encourage violence more than other religions do , while only about half as many ( 25 % ) said that it does . Since then , opinions have been more closely divided . The current measure is comparable to 2009 and 2005 , when pluralities said Islam was no more likely than other religions to encourage violence .
A new Pew Research Center report on parents of 13- to 17-year-olds finds that parents take a wide range of actions to monitor their teen 's digital life and to encourage their child to use technology in an appropriate and responsible manner . Parents are keeping a close eye on their teen 's digital life , but few do so by tech-based means . Roughly six-in-ten parents say they have either checked which websites their teen has visited or looked at their teen 's social media profile . And about half say they have looked through their teen 's phone call records or messages . But few parents are utilizing more technical measures – such as parental controls or location tracking tools – to monitor their teen .
And 75 % agree it would be `` better for the economy for undocumented immigrants to gain legal status and become legal workers . '' Far fewer Americans say that legalization would have a negative impact on jobs . About half ( 51 % ) say that `` granting undocumented immigrants legal status would take jobs from U.S . citizens . ''
For years , TV was the most commonly used platform for news among U.S. Hispanics . In recent years , however , the share getting their news from TV has declined , from 92 % in 2006 to 79 % in 2016 . Meanwhile , 74 % of Hispanics said in 2016 that they used the internet – including social media or smartphone apps – as a source of news on a typical weekday , up from 37 % in 2006 .
A separate measure dating back to the late 1980s shows an even larger decline in the perceived value of Washington experience . The question asks which better prepares someone to be president – serving as a senator or member of Congress or as a state 's governor – and mentions possible advantages of each position . In the case of a member of Congress , it would be acquiring experience in Washington and foreign policy ; a governor is described as able to��gain experience as head of an administration . In 1987 , 66 % said experience as a member of Congress provided better preparation for the White House while just 22 % said serving as governor was better preparation . In 2007 , two decades later , congressional experience was still preferred by more than two-to-one ( 55 % to 24 % ) . But today , the public is divided : 44 % say serving in Congress better prepares someone to be president while as many say experience as governor is better preparation .
In Pew 's latest national survey , conducted Feb. 20 - 24 among 1,508 adults , a 54 % majority said the U.S. made the wrong decision in using military force in Iraq , while 38 % said it was the right decision . Last March , 49 % said the decision to got to war was wrong , while 43 % said it was right . During the third and fourth years of the conflict public opinion on this question was divided , while in the war 's first two years clear majorities backed the decision to use force in Iraq . Americans continue to be divided on whether to keep troops in Iraq or bring them home . A slim plurality of Americans ( 49 % ) now supports bringing the troops home as soon as possible , while 47 % favor maintaining troops in Iraq until the situation there is stabilized . A year ago , a narrow majority ( 52 % ) favored a troop withdrawal as soon as possible , compared with 43 % who favored keeping the troops in Iraq . Public support for a troop pullout peaked at 56 % in June 2007 . The percentage favoring withdrawing the troops as soon as possible is at its lowest level since mid-January 2007 ( 48 % ) .
The survey , part of a larger study to be released later this year about issues related to race , ethnicity and identity , also asked whether it 's ever acceptable for someone to wear traditional dress from a country or culture other than their own as part of a Halloween costume . About six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) say this is always or sometimes acceptable , while about a quarter ( 27 % ) say it 's rarely or never acceptable . Here , too , there are differences across racial and ethnic lines and between Democrats and Republicans .
By the third generation – a group made up of the U.S.-born children of U.S.-born parents and immigrant grandparents – the share that self-identifies as Hispanic falls to 77 % . And by the fourth or higher generation ( U.S.-born children of U.S.-born parents and U.S.-born grandparents , or even more distant relatives ) , just half of U.S. adults with Hispanic ancestry say they are Hispanic .
Voters are in broad agreement about the importance of ensuring that all people who are legally qualified and want to vote are able to cast their ballots : Nearly all registered voters ( 99 % ) say this is at least somewhat important , including 92 % who say it is very important . Sizable majorities of voters ( 84 % ) also say it is at least somewhat important that people who are not legally qualified to vote are prevented from voting , though fewer say this is very important ( 65 % ) . With the expectation that a far larger share of voters will cast their ballots by mail than in past elections comes the prospect that counting those ballots may take substantially longer than in past years . But about half of registered voters ( 52 % ) say it is very important that Americans know who won the election with a day or two of Election Day , and 82 % say this is at least somewhat important . Virtually all Trump and Biden supporters ( 99 % each ) say it is at least somewhat important that all voters who are qualified and want to vote are able to cast their ballots in the election , and at least nine-in-ten in both coalitions say this is very important .
On a per capita basis , for example , the U.S. deficit with Germany stands out . In 2017 , Germany had a $ 777 per capita trade advantage with the U.S. , a figure calculated by dividing the U.S. deficit with Germany by Germany 's population . Mexico had a $ 575 per capita advantage with its northern neighbor . But China , with its huge population , came in at only a $ 270 per capita advantage .
The survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted March 13 - 17 among 1,501 adults , finds that young people are the most supportive of marijuana legalization . Fully 65 % of Millennials –born since 1980 and now between 18 and 32 – favor legalizing the use of marijuana , up from just 36 % in 2008 . Yet there also has been a striking change in long-term attitudes among older generations , particularly Baby Boomers .
At this point in the campaign , Clinton receives slightly greater support from Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 91 % ) than Trump receives from Republicans and Republican leaners ( 85 % ) in a general election matchup . In part , this reflects the fact that Clinton does somewhat better among Democrats who did not support her in the primary than Trump does among Republicans who did not support him in the primary . Among Republicans , 77 % of those who preferred another candidate in the GOP primary say they would vote for Trump over Clinton . A somewhat larger percentage of Democrats who preferred Sanders in the Democratic primary ( 85 % ) say they would vote for Clinton over Trump .
Texas , Washington , New York and California resettled roughly a quarter of all refugees in fiscal 2019 . Together , these states took in nearly 8,100 refugees . Other states that received at least 1,000 refugees include Kentucky , Ohio , North Carolina , Arizona , Georgia and Michigan . By contrast , the District of Columbia , Delaware and West Virginia each resettled fewer than 10 refugees . Hawaii and Wyoming took in no refugees in fiscal 2019 .
The new survey finds 65 % saying it was the right decision to bring charges against the Baltimore police officers involved in the Freddie Gray case , while just 16 % call it the wrong decision . Majorities of blacks ( 78 % ) and whites ( 60 % ) call it the right decision , though this view is more widely held among blacks than whites . A December 2014 survey found that 57 % of Americans said it was the wrong decision not to charge New York City police officers in the choking death of Eric Garner ; far fewer ( 22 % ) said this was the right decision . Blacks overwhelmingly said the decision was wrong , by a 90 % -2 % margin . On balance , whites also said the decision was wrong by a 47 % -28 % margin . In the same survey , 50 % of the public said the grand jury made the right decision not to charge police officer Darren Wilson in the death of Michael Brown , compared with 37 % who called this the wrong decision . There were much wider racial differences in reactions to that outcome : 80 % of blacks said it was the wrong decision not to charge Officer Wilson in Michael Brown 's death , while just 10 % said it was the right decision . By contrast , most whites ( 64 % ) thought the grand jury made the right decision , compared with 23 % who called it the wrong decision .
Public interest in health care reform shows no signs of slackening , with news about the debate continuing to top the public 's news agenda . Fully 46 % name health care as the story they followed more closely than any other last week – double the percentage who named the week 's second most closely followed story ( economy , 23 % ) . Moreover , health care is far and away the story people say they have been talking about most with friends : 55 % say this , compared with 20 % who name the economy .
Yet among partisans who have heard a lot about the issue , the partisan gap over the decision to withdraw is even wider than in the public overall . Roughly two-thirds of Republicans who have heard a lot about the withdrawal ( 66 % ) say this would be the right decision , compared with 27 % who say it would not be . Among Democrats who have heard a lot about the plan to withdraw , nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) view it as the wrong decision , while just 16 % say it would be the right decision .
Pakistanis are also more willing to support the army in its fight against terrorist groups in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas than they were in the past . In 2015 , 58 % supported using the army to fight these groups , with only 16 % opposed . Comparable levels of commitment to rooting our terrorists in these areas have not been seen since 2009 , when the question was first asked .
According to the study , poll results look nearly identical whether based only on those adults reached on cellphones or on a combination of cellphone and landline respondents . Analysis of more than 250 survey questions shows that when landlines are excluded , the estimates change by less than 1 percentage point , on average .
Among both Americans and Russians , there is little confidence in the ability of the other nation 's president to do the right thing regarding world affairs . Only 21 % of Americans have confidence in Russian President Vladimir Putin to do the right thing – similar to the share who had confidence in him over much of the past decade .
A majority of U.S. adults trust medical scientists a lot for information about vaccines . Some 55 % of Americans said in 2016 that they trust medical scientists a lot to give full and accurate information about the health risks and benefits of the childhood MMR vaccine . Another 35 % said they have some trust in medical scientists , while just 9 % said they trust them not too much or not at all . High degrees of trust in other groups were much lower , however . For example , no more than one-in-ten Americans placed a lot of trust in elected officials ( 6 % ) and news media ( 8 % ) to provide accurate information about the MMR vaccine .
As the nation prepares for another round of deficit reduction debates , the public 's confidence in congressional leaders , particularly Republican leaders in Congress , has plummeted . Just 35 % say they have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in Republican leaders in Congress to do the right thing when it comes to dealing with the federal budget deficit , down from 47 % in May . Fully 62 % say they have little or no confidence in the Republican leaders on this issue . Public confidence in Barack Obama on the budget deficit , by comparison , has remained largely unchanged . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Sept. 22 - 25 among 1,000 adults finds that 52 % express at least a fair amount of confidence in Obama to do the right thing when it comes to dealing with the deficit , virtually unchanged from 55 % earlier in the year . Public trust in Democratic congressional leaders has also suffered – 43 % say they have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in Democratic leaders , down from 51 % four months ago .
Since 2014 , the number of K-12 public school students from racial and ethnic minority groups – including Hispanic , black and Asian Americans – has been higher than the white student population nationwide , according to the U.S. Department of Education . In fall 2019 , children from racial and ethnic minority groups are projected to make up 52.9 % of public K-12 students . That 's a sharp increase from 1995 , when minority groups accounted for just 35.2 % of these students .
Nearly all members of Congress now have college degrees . The share of representatives and senators with college degrees has steadily increased over time . In the 116th Congress , 96 % of House members and all senators have a bachelor 's degree or higher . In the 79th Congress ( 1945 - 47 ) , by comparison , 56 % of House members and 75 % of senators had degrees .
Current ratings of the national economy are dim : 48 % say the economy is in only fair shape , while 31 % say it is in poor shape ; just 21 % say the economy is in excellent or good shape .
For their part , a solid majority of Americans say the U.S. should militarily defend a NATO ally if embroiled in an armed conflict with Russia . Asked about their own country 's obligation under the same scenario , more than half in the Netherlands ( 72 % ) , Poland ( 62 % ) , Canada ( 58 % ) and France ( 53 % ) support living up to their mutual defense commitment as a member of NATO . Just 40 % of Germans back such assistance . In most countries surveyed , the more people perceive Russia as a major threat , the greater their willingness to come to a security partner 's defense .
Publics in the Middle East are divided when it comes to the degree of influence that Saudi Arabia wields in their country . A clear majority in Lebanon ( 83 % ) says that Saudi Arabia has a great deal or fair amount of influence on the direction of their country , but other publics in the region are not as convinced .
The desire for enhanced prestige on the world stage coexists with a persistent strain of ethnic nationalism . Roughly half ( 53 % ) of Russians say their homeland should be for Russians , while 44 % think it is natural for Russia to have an empire .
The story around mobile security is not all negative . Very few smartphone owners ( 3 % ) say they never update their phone 's apps or operating system or use a screen lock to access their phone . And some users are especially diligent when it comes to mobile security , taking the steps most recommended by cybersecurity experts . Around one-in-five smartphone owners ( 22 % ) , for example , say they use a screen lock for their phone , update their apps either automatically or as soon as an update is available , and immediately update their device 's operating system when a new version is offered . But most users ( 75 % ) fall in the middle of the mobile security spectrum . This group includes smartphone owners who use a screen lock but , unlike more diligent users , only update their phone 's apps and operating system when it 's convenient for them to do so .
About three-quarters of Latinos ( 78 % ) say it will be necessary for Congress to pass another economic relief bill in addition to the $ 2 trillion economic assistance package passed by Congress in March and signed by President Donald Trump .
The latest evidence for that comes from Minneapolis-based investment bank Piper Jaffray . Earlier this spring , the firm , which regularly surveys teens ' spending patterns , brand preferences , media and entertainment habits and other information of interest to investors , asked 4,800 teens nationwide whether they shopped online ; not surprisingly , more than three-quarters said they did . But when Piper asked teens whether they preferred shopping online or in stores , 78 % of girls and 75 % of boys said they 'd rather go to actual stores .
Overall , 54 % say that Russia 's power and influence is a major threat to the U.S . This is as high a share viewing Russia as a major threat to the U.S. in Pew Research surveys since 2005 ( the wording used in surveys to describe Russia has varied with events over the past 12 years – see topline for full details ) . More now see Russia as a major threat than in April 2016 , when 42 % said `` tensions with Russia '' presented a major threat to the U.S. Concern is about as high as it was in August 2014 , when 53 % described `` growing tension between Russia and its neighbors '' as a major threat to the U.S. ( the 2014 survey was conducted in the months after Russia annexed Crimea ) . The increase over the last year in the share viewing Russia as a major threat has been driven entirely by shifts in views among Democrats ; and for the first time in surveys since 2005 , more Democrats than Republicans see Russia as a major threat to the U.S . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Democrats and Democratic leaners say Russia 's power and influence is a major threat to the U.S. , up dramatically from April 2016 when just 37 % viewed tensions with Russia as a major threat . By contrast , 41 % of Republicans and Republican leaners now see Russia as a major threat , little changed from the share who said this in April ( 46 % ) .
Moreover , only about a third ( 34 % ) say the campaign has `` focused on important policy debates , '' while 58 % say it has not . Democrats and independents are more likely than Republicans to say the campaign has not focused on key policy debates . By roughly two-to-one , Democrats ( 63 % to 29 % ) and independents ( 62 % to 32 % ) say the campaign has not focused on important policy debates . Republicans are divided – 46 % say the campaign has concentrated on important policy debates while 44 % say it has not .
The public continues to pay attention to economic and financial news , including last week 's big rise in the stock market . More than a quarter of Americans ( 27 % ) say they followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy more closely than any other story last week . Another 17 % say they followed changes in the stock markets most closely , making those stories the two most closely followed of the week . Meanwhile , reporting about the economy took up 33 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . ( Including stock market-related stories , economic coverage totaled 35 % of all coverage . )
As in previous Pew Research surveys of social networking usage , Facebook remains the dominant player in the social networking space . Some 71 % of online adults are now Facebook users , a slight increase from the 67 % of online adults who used Facebook as of late 2012 .
But in this new survey , three times as many respondents said being black would help Obama ( 32 % ) with Latino voters than said it would hurt him ( 11 % ) ; the majority ( 53 % ) said his race would make no difference to Latino voters .
Scotland also disagrees with the rest of the UK on two issues central to the Brexit debate : the economy and immigration . The Scottish feel more threatened by the prospect of global economic instability than their counterparts in the rest of the UK . Roughly six-in-ten say it is a major threat to their country , while only 48 % say the same in England , Northern Ireland and Wales . Meanwhile , the rest of the UK feels more threatened by the large number of refugees leaving countries such as Iraq and Syria ( 54 % major threat ) . Just 41 % of Scottish people agree .
Overall , 19 % of the public say they followed the protests very closely , matching the number that said this one week earlier . Slightly more Democrats say this than Republicans ( 21 % vs. 14 % ) . News about the protests – which last week included confrontations with police in Oakland and Atlanta – accounted for 5 % of the newshole . That 's down from the week of Oct. 10 - 16 , when the story accounted for 10 % of coverage . The top foreign stories attracted less interest . Overall , 7 % say their top story was the situation in Libya after the death of that country 's ousted leader , Moammar Gadhafi ; 14 % say they followed this news very closely . On both measures , there is little difference among partisans . News about Libya accounted for 4 % of coverage , down sharply from 17 % one week earlier when Gadhafi was captured and killed . Interest in the ongoing financial crisis in Europe remains limited . Just 4 % say the efforts to deal with the debt crisis in Greece and other European countries was their top story ; 12 % say they followed this news very closely . Partisans showed comparable interest on both measures . News about the debt crisis accounted for 5 % of coverage .
China has more internet users than nearly all other countries have people . ( The lone exception is India . ) According to the latest semiannual report from the official China Internet Network Information Center , 590.56 million people in China were using the internet at mid-2013 , an increase of nearly 53 million ( or 9.85 % ) from a year earlier . By comparison , the U.S. has the second-most internet users — 254 million , according to the Harvard Business Review , but that 's less than half as many as China . Internet penetration in China continues to rise , but is still just 44.1 % , according to the center 's report ; a year earlier it was 39.9 % . By contrast , according to the Pew Research Center , almost everyone in the U.S. who wants to be online already is : 85 % of Americans ages 18 and older ( and 95 % of teens ) use the internet or email , and only 8 % of those who do n't say they 're interested in starting .
Shifting attitudes toward China are colored , in part , by the context of the continued trade frictions and tariffs between the United States and China . Today , just over half of Americans ( 53 % ) believe current economic ties between the U.S. and China are bad . Fewer ( 41 % ) think economic relations between the two nations are good , with just 2 % of American adults saying ties are very good . Partisanship is associated with views of the U.S.-China economic relationship : While 49 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents see current ties as good , around one-third ( 36 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents share this view . And , despite having more favorable views of China , younger Americans ( ages 18 to 29 ) are about as likely as those 50 and older to have negative views of current economic relations with China ( 58 % and 53 % , respectively , say ties are bad ) .
Israel 's deadly interception of a flotilla of boats carrying supplies to Gaza attracted far more coverage ( 13 % of the newshole ) but somewhat less public attentiveness . While 22 % say they followed this story very closely , just 4 % say this was the news they followed most closely . A matching number say they followed the National Hockey League 's Stanley Cup finals most closely ; 7 % say they followed this news very closely . Stanley Cup stories made up less than 1 % of newshole measured by PEJ . Just 1 % says they followed news about the separation of former Vice President Al Gore and his wife , Tipper , more closely than any other story ; 7 % followed this story very closely . Stories about the breakup of the 40-year marriage accounted for 1 % of coverage .
Russia and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe have experienced a resurgence of Orthodox Christian identity since the fall of the Soviet Union , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of 18 countries in the region . This increase in religious identity is accompanied in large part by high levels of religious belief , such as belief in God .
An estimated 1.2 million Hispanics of Colombian origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Colombians in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Colombian origin ; this includes immigrants from Colombia and those who trace their family ancestry to Colombia . Colombians are the seventh-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 2 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Colombian-origin population has increased 148 % , growing from 502,000 to 1.2 million over the period . At the same time , the Colombian foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 99 % , from 383,000 in 2000 to 763,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
Compared with seniors , younger adults are more inclined to like trying new technology products . These age differences are in keeping with previous Pew Research Center surveys that found younger adults more likely to be interested in science and technology and more likely to own technology products such as smartphones , tablets and computers . And while men and women have similar preferences , index scores suggest that men under age 50 are more likely than either older men or women at any age to prefer new technology products . Technology products have typically come on the market with a high price tag that is out of reach for many consumers . Thus , not surprisingly , adults with family incomes of at least $ 150,000 annually also tend to express a stronger preference for early technology adoption on this summary index ( 39 % do so ) compared with those at middle- and lower-income levels .
Honolulu has by far the highest share of intermarried newlyweds of any metro area analyzed – 42 % of newlyweds living in and around that city were married to someone of a different race or ethnicity . The same is true of about three-in-ten newlyweds living near Las Vegas or Santa Barbara , California . ( All U.S. metro areas with at least 200 newlyweds in the Census Bureau data – 126 in all – are included in this analysis . Click here to see full tables that can be sorted by metro area and race and ethnicity . )
Education , the economy and health care are the leading concerns for voters this year – roughly eight-in-ten say each is very important to them personally . By contrast , many of the issues that have recently gotten attention – either on Capitol Hill or in the media – rank among the least important to voters . Barely a third ( 34 % ) say the issue of gay marriage is very important , and only somewhat more rank abortion , global warming , ending the inheritance tax , and government surveillance programs as very important . While gay marriage is more important to Republican voters than Democratic voters , even here it comes far down the list below such issues as terrorism and homeland security , the economy , and immigration .
With a possible government shutdown just hours away , public anger at the federal government is as high as at any point since the Pew Research Center began asking the question in 1997 . Anger is most palpable among conservative Republicans – 41 % say they are angry at the federal government , the highest among any partisan group . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 25 - 29 among 1,005 adults , finds that 26 % overall say they are angry at the federal government , while 51 % feel frustrated . Just 17 % say they are basically content with the government . As in the past , substantial majorities across the political spectrum are either angry or frustrated with the federal government . But anger at the government is far more widespread among conservative Republicans than other partisan groups . This marks a change from 2011 , when political independents ( 30 % angry ) were about as likely as conservative Republicans ( 32 % ) to express anger at the federal government . In the new survey , 41 % of conservative Republicans say they feel angry at the government , compared with 27 % of independents . Conservative Republicans are roughly twice as likely as liberal Democrats to say they are angry with government ( 41 % vs. 18 % ) .
Like teens overall , Hispanic teens also practice religion with their families in other ways : roughly two-thirds ( 64 % ) say they talk with their family `` often '' ( 21 % ) or `` sometimes '' ( 43 % ) about religion . And just one-in-ten say they never have these discussions . About four-in-ten report saying grace or a prayer before family meals at least sometimes , and 28 % say they read religious scriptures as a family with the same frequency .
This report is not able to identify immigrant workers by whether they are documented or undocumented because the immigration status of workers is not recorded in the source data . However , estimates by the Pew Hispanic Center show that unauthorized migrants account for about 5 % of the U.S. labor force and about one-third of the foreign-born labor force . They are overrepresented in certain industries such as construction , where they account for 12 % of employment ( Passel , 2006 ) . Most unauthorized migrants are from Latin American countries , with those from Mexico accounting for about 55 % of the total .
The poll includes other positive signs for Obama , as well some potential vulnerabilities . For the first time since last May , significantly more approve ( 50 % ) than disapprove ( 41 % ) of his overall job performance . That is little changed from a month ago ( 47 % approve , 43 % disapprove ) , but in January 44 % approved of the way Obama is handling his job as president , while 48 % disapproved .
The public 's perception of the state of the national economy continues to be overwhelmingly negative . Just 10 % rate economic conditions as excellent ( 1 % ) or good ( 9 % ) , while 89 % rate them as only fair ( 39 % ) or poor ( 50 % ) .
Only about a quarter of Americans ( 23 % ) rate current economic conditions as excellent or good , while 76 % say they are only fair or poor . Yet this is the most positive assessment of the nation 's economy since January 2008 .
The most negative reviews of China 's COVID-19 response come from three nations in the Asia-Pacific region . More than seven-in-ten in Japan , South Korea and Australia say China has done a bad job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak , including more than four-in-ten in each country who say they did a very bad job . Assessments of China 's handling of the coronavirus outbreak are generally much more negative than those given to other nations and institutions . Publics give the highest ratings to their own country 's coronavirus response ( median of 73 % good job ) . And a median of about six-in-ten say the World Health Organization and European Union have done a good job dealing with the coronavirus . The exception to this pattern comes in assessments of the United States ' handling of the virus , which receives even more negative ratings on its COVID-19 strategy : A median of 84 % believe the American response to the pandemic has been bad , while just 15 % rate it as good .
The shift is mostly driven by changing views among Democrats . The share of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents who say legal immigration into the U.S. should be increased has doubled since 2006 , from 20 % to 40 % . Republicans ' views also have changed , though more modestly . The share of Republicans and Republican leaners who say legal immigration should be decreased has fallen 10 percentage points since 2006 , from 43 % to 33 % . Still , about twice as many Republicans ( 33 % ) as Democrats ( 16 % ) support cutting legal immigration into the U.S .
Ukrainians are unhappy with the general direction of their country as well as their economic situation and national leadership . Roughly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) Ukrainians are dissatisfied with the way things are going in their country . A roughly equal percentage ( 91 % ) describes the current economic situation in Ukraine as somewhat or very bad , with a majority ( 59 % ) saying very bad .
In a survey about the future impact of the internet , a solid majority of technology experts and stakeholders said the Millennial generation will lead society into a new world of personal disclosure and information-sharing using new media . These experts said the communications patterns `` digital natives '' have already embraced through their use of social networking technology and other social technology tools will carry forward even as Millennials age , form families , and move up the economic ladder . The highly engaged , diverse set of respondents to an online , opt-in survey included 895 technology stakeholders and critics . The study was fielded by the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project and Elon University 's Imagining the Internet Center .
Indeed , when Pew Research Center has surveyed the Hispanic community , there are several issues that consistently rank higher on the list than immigration . In 2013 , some 57 % of Hispanic registered voters called education an `` extremely important '' issue facing the nation today . That 's compared with jobs and the economy ( 52 % ) and health care ( 43 % ) . Just 32 % said immigration . Since 2007 , about one-third of Hispanic registered voters have called immigration an `` extremely important '' issue to them personally . Even among Hispanic immigrants , the share was 35 % in 2012 .
Roughly three-quarters of Democrats ( 77 % ) say they `` never doubt the existence of God , '' as do 76 % of independents . The proportion of Democrats saying they never doubt God 's existence has fallen 11 points over the past decade . Among white Democrats , the decline has been 17 points – from 85 % in 2002 to 68 % currently . Independents also are less likely to express firm belief in God than in the past . By contrast , the percentage of Republicans saying they never doubt God 's existence is as large today ( 92 % ) as it was a decade ago , or a quarter century ago . There also has been a substantial decline in the share of Democrats saying they `` have old-fashioned values about family and marriage . '' Just 60 % of Democrats currently agree , down from 70 % in 2007 and 86 % in the first political values survey . Republicans ' views have shown far less change : Currently , 88 % say they have old-fashioned values about marriage and family .
The number of legal permanent residents applying for U.S. citizenship in the nine months starting last October is at its highest level in four years , and it is up 8 % from the same period before the 2012 elections . Although some organizers of naturalization and voter registration drives have suggested the increase is a reaction to Donald Trump 's candidacy , a Pew Research Center analysis of naturalization data shows there have been much larger percentage increases in past years , with jumps not always coming during election years . So far this fiscal year – from October 2015 to June 2016 – 718,430 immigrants have applied for naturalization , a 26 % increase over the same time period a year before , according to data released by U.S . Citizenship and Immigration Services . By comparison , the number of naturalization applications increased by 19 % in fiscal 2012 over the previous year .
Roughly half of the public ( 49 % ) very closely followed news about Ebola last week , a far greater share than interest in news about ISIS airstrikes ( 29 % ) , U.S. economic news ( 26 % ) and the upcoming congressional elections ( 16 % ) . Overall , last week 's Ebola interest ranks it near the top of the year 's closely followed stories .
Only about a quarter ( 26 % ) of Trump voters say the president-elect should appoint Democrats to serve in his administration . Twice as many ( 52 % ) say it does not matter , while 21 % say Trump should not name Democrats to his cabinet . In 2008 , after Obama 's first victory , 52 % of voters who supported him said he should appoint Republicans to his cabinet , double the share of Trump backers who favor Democrats in his cabinet today .
For example , those who see a more frequent impact of scientific findings on land use regulations also tend to be more upbeat about the state of science today ; 62 % say this is generally a good time for science . By comparison , those who say the best science guides land use regulations only some of the time or never are less positive . Half ( 50 % ) of this group says it is a good time and an equal share says it is a bad time for science overall . The same pattern holds for each of the four types of regulations considered in the survey . Scientists who perceive a more frequent influence of the best science on regulations are also more likely to say this is a good time for science compared with scientists who see less frequent impact of the best scientific information on policy rules .
While public opinion about labor unions may have improved , the news about membership has not . The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported earlier this year that overall union membership in 2012 declined to 11.3 % of the workforce , from 11.8 % in 2011 to 11.3 % . The falloff in union membership has been continuous since 1983 , the first year for which the BLS says there is comparable data . In that year , the union share of wage and salary workers was 20.1 % . The number of union workers is bolstered by membership of public-sector workers . Their membership rate was 35.9 % , five times higher than the share of workers in the private sector ( 6.6 % ) . But public sector unions are facing their own challenges , ranging from widespread layoffs by state and local governments due to austerity measures forced upon them by the economy , to measures passed in some states , such as Michigan and Wisconsin , cutting back the power of unions representing state workers .
As the Supreme Court prepares to hear the first of two death penalty cases in this year 's term , the share of Americans who support the death penalty for people convicted of murder is now at its lowest point in more than four decades . Only about half of Americans ( 49 % ) now favor the death penalty for people convicted of murder , while 42 % oppose it . Support has dropped 7 percentage points since March 2015 , from 56 % . Public support for capital punishment peaked in the mid-1990s , when eight-in-ten Americans ( 80 % in 1994 ) favored the death penalty and fewer than two-in-ten were opposed ( 16 % ) . Opposition to the death penalty is now the highest it has been since 1972 .
Since the end of the Great Recession , the growth in the number of students with unauthorized immigrant parents has been entirely due to a broader increase in the number of children born in the U.S . The number of students who are unauthorized immigrants themselves ( and their share of the total ) has declined . States in the West and Southwest tend to have the highest shares of K-12 students with unauthorized immigrant parents . In six states , the share is 10 % or more : Nevada ( 17.6 % ) ranked first , followed by Texas ( 13.4 % ) , California ( 12.3 % ) , Arizona ( 12.2 % ) , Colorado ( 10.2 % ) and New Mexico ( 10.1 % ) . California and Texas had about the same share of students with unauthorized immigrant parents in 2012 , but by 2014 , California 's share had dropped below that of Texas . At the other end of the spectrum , the share of students with unauthorized immigrant parents was less than 1 % in six states , mainly in the Midwest and Northeast .
Beyond immediate recriminations , the crisis at the Fukushima Daiichi plant has raised questions about the long-term future of nuclear energy in Japan . The Japanese public is divided on the issue . Nearly half ( 46 % ) favor maintaining Japan 's reliance on nuclear power at its current levels , while 44 % think the use of nuclear power should be reduced . Only 8 % believe the country should increase its use of nuclear power .
An estimated 746,000 Hispanics of Spanish origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Spaniards in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Spanish origin ; this means either they themselves are Spanish immigrants or they trace their family ancestry to Spain . Spaniards are the ninth-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 1.4 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013 . Since 2007 , the Spanish-origin population has more than doubled , growing from 353,000 to 746,000 over the period . At the same time , the foreign-born population of Spanish origin living in the U.S. almost doubled , from 60,000 in 2007 to 106,000 in 2013 . In comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 34.6 million , or 64.1 % , of the Hispanic population in 2013 .
The decline in the belief in solid evidence of global warming has come across the political spectrum , but has been particularly pronounced among independents . Just 53 % of independents now see solid evidence of global warming , compared with 75 % who did so in April 2008 . Republicans , who already were highly skeptical of the evidence of global warming , have become even more so : just 35 % of Republicans now see solid evidence of rising global temperatures , down from 49 % in 2008 and 62 % in 2007 . Fewer Democrats also express this view – 75 % today compared with 83 % last year .
About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) very closely followed news about the death of a killer-whale trainer at Sea World in Orlando , Fla. : 10 % say this was the story they followed most closely last week . Almost a quarter of women ( 23 % ) say they followed this story very closely , compared with 15 % of men . The killing of a veteran trainer by a 12,000 pound whale accounted for 3 % of news coverage . Two-in-ten say they followed developments in the U.S. military effort in Afghanistan very closely , while 6 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News out of Afghanistan accounted for 5 % of coverage . And 16 % say they followed Congressional hearings about problems with Toyota vehicles very closely ; 5 % say this was the story they followed most closely last week . Stories about Toyota 's problems made up 10 % of the newshole , with the bulk of the coverage tied to the hearings in Washington .
Positive opinions of the government declined through the remainder of George W. Bush 's presidency and have continued to fall during the Obama administration . Currently , 28 % have a favorable impression of the federal government while 65 % have an unfavorable view .
Voter turnout regularly drops in midterm elections , and has done so since the 1840s . In 2008 , for instance , 57.1 % of the voting-age population cast ballots — the highest level in four decades — as Barack Obama became the first African American elected president . But two years later only 36.9 % voted in the midterm election that put the House back in Republican hands . For Obama 's re-election in 2012 , turnout rebounded to 53.7 % .
Attitudes toward the Department of Justice have shifted considerably among both Republicans and Democrats . Today , about six-in-ten in both parties say they have a favorable opinion of the DOJ . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , a 57 % majority are favorable today , up 10 percentage points from last year ( 47 % ) . By contrast , the share of Democrats who view the Department of Justice favorably has declined from 74 % to 60 % since then . Republicans also are more favorable toward the Federal Reserve and the VA today compared with last year : Currently , about two-thirds of Republicans give a positive rating ( 65 % ) to the Fed , up from about half ( 51 % ) one year ago . And a 56 % majority of Republicans view the VA favorably ; last year , just 40 % said the same . Views of these agencies among Democrats are little changed in the last year : Majorities continue to give favorable ratings for both the Federal Reserve ( 65 % ) and the VA ( 59 % ) .
When you analyze the poll results , you attribute two-thirds of undecided voters ( which you call `` non-disclosers '' ) to the `` No '' side and one-third to the `` Yes '' side , arguing that people who oppose independence are less likely to tell that to a pollster . What 's your reasoning there ?
Just 11 % of Japanese express a favorable view of China today . And over the past decade , the average favorability of China among Japanese has been just 18 % .
When asked which president has done the best job in their lifetimes , more Americans name Barack Obama than any other president . More than four-in-ten ( 44 % ) say Obama is the best or second best president of their lifetimes , compared with about a third who mention Bill Clinton ( 33 % ) or Ronald Reagan ( 32 % ) .
Across the countries studied – Denmark , France , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Spain , Sweden and the United Kingdom – a median of 70 % say they get news at least daily from TV . The platform 's reach is highest in Italy and Spain , where 81 % in each country say they get news daily from TV . Online news consumption is slightly less common : A regional median of 60 % get news this way at least daily . But in some countries , the share of people who get news online competes with – or even exceeds – the share who get it through TV .
Currently , 45 Fortune 1000 companies have women as their chief executives . There will be 46 women CEOs in that elite group as of January , when Barra takes the reins at GM , Jacqueline Hinman becomes CEO of engineering giant CH2M Hill and Linda Lang is scheduled to step down as chief of Jack in the Box . That would represent an all-time high , according to data compiled by nonprofit research firm Catalyst . A decade ago , only 16 companies on Fortune 's list had women CEOs . Still , that 's less than 5 % of the top jobs at America 's top corporations .
Older Americans traditionally turn out to vote at higher rates than younger adults . In the 2016 presidential election , roughly a quarter of voters ( 27 % ) were ages 65 and older , according to a Center analysis of validated voters . In contrast , only 9 % of nonvoters were in this age group .
Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has found himself at the heart of the European drama surrounding the Greek debt crisis , and many around the world are voicing their opinions of Tsipras on the social media network Twitter . A new analysis of about 300,000 tweets in Greek and English , collected between July 6 and 12 , finds that the conversation about the controversial leader has been primarily negative in tone , especially among those posting tweets in Greek . Twitter offers one window into the reaction to Tsipras ' handling of the situation . Our analysis of the conversation unfolding on the social network finds some differences between English- and Greek-language tweets , but little in either language that is favorable to the prime minister . Among Greek-language tweets studied , 75 % of the conversation expressed negative sentiment about Tsipras , while 14 % was positive and 11 % was neutral . The Twitter activity in English was considerably larger in volume than that in Greek , and it contained a larger share of neutral discussion , but the same general pattern held . More than half ( 57 % ) of the English-language conversation about Tsipras was negative , while just 6 % was positive ( 38 % was neutral in tone ) .
In our survey , LGBT adults said pride events are important to making society more accepting , but not as important as some other things , such as people knowing someone who is LGBT and well known public figures who are LGBT or who support LGBT rights . Still , about three-quarters of LGBT adults think LGBT pride events help make society at least a little more accepting of the LGBT population , with about three-in-ten LGBT adults ( 28 % ) saying LGBT pride events help `` a lot '' with social acceptance and about five-in-ten ( 48 % ) saying these events help `` a little . '' Within the LGBT community , views on the importance of LGBT pride events vary . While about three-in-ten gay men , lesbians and bisexual women think these events help advance social acceptance of LGBT Americans `` a lot , '' only 12 % of bisexual men say the same .
A 58 % majority of Americans say police around the country do an excellent or good job of protecting people from crime , which is little changed from the share who said this four years ago ( 62 % ) . However , there have been double-digit declines in the shares who say police forces do an excellent or good job of using the right amount of force for each situation ( from 45 % in 2016 to 35 % today ) , treating racial and ethnic groups equally ( 47 % to 34 % ) and holding officers accountable when misconduct occurs ( 44 % to 31 % ) .
Donald Trump 's presidency has had a major impact on how the world sees the United States . A global median of just 22 % have confidence in Trump to do the right thing when it comes to international affairs , according to a survey conducted last spring . The image of the U.S. abroad also suffered a decline : Just 49 % have a favorable view , down from 64 % at the end of Barack Obama 's presidency .
Younger Americans see their country 's relationship with China as more important than the one with Germany . About six-in-ten Americans ages 18 to 29 favor a closer relationship with China . By contrast , 58 % of Americans ages 65 and older prefer a close relationship with Germany .
The public divided its attention among the top stories last week , though Americans say they followed news about the economy – and the fate of General Motors – most closely . Two-in-ten say they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy most closely among the leading stories . More than four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say they followed economic news very closely , comparable to the share following the economy very closely in recent weeks . According to PEJ , coverage of the economic crisis took up 9 % of the newshole . Close to two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed reports about General Motors ' plans to file bankruptcy most closely . A third say they followed those stories very closely , while another 40 % followed them fairly closely . Those numbers are similar to the share following American carmakers ' troubles in recent surveys . Stories about GM 's plans – the company filed for Chapter 11 on June 1 – and developments at Chrysler accounted for 7 % of the newshole .
Americans are optimistic about the future of space exploration . A 2010 survey conducted by Pew Research and Smithsonian magazine found that 63 % of Americans expected astronauts to land on Mars , and 53 % believed that ordinary people would be able to travel in space by 2050 . Some Americans are even more hopeful about the possibilities of space exploration . One-third of Americans predicted in a 2014 Pew Research/Smithsonian survey that humans will have long-term space colonies in the next 50 years .
American attitudes toward China have turned sharply negative over the last two years . According to new Pew Research Center poll findings not yet released in a report , 52 % of Americans have an unfavorable opinion of China , while just 37 % express a favorable view . In 2011 , the balance of opinion was just the opposite – 51 % held a favorable opinion , while just 36 % gave China an unfavorable rating .
Among older adults , tablets and e-book readers are as popular as smartphones : Among the general public , smartphones are much more common than either tablet computers or e-book readers , such as Kindles or Nooks . But tablets , e-book readers , and smartphones are each owned by an identical 18 % of older adults . In fact , the proportion of older adults who own either a tablet or an e-book reader is actually larger than the proportion owning a smartphone . Some 27 % of seniors own a tablet , an e-book reader , or both , while 18 % own a smartphone . Today 46 % of online seniors ( representing 27 % of the total older adult population ) use social networking sites such as Facebook , and these social network adopters have more persistent social connections with the people they care about .
Scientists as a group are highly regarded , compared with other prominent groups and institutions in society . In all publics , majorities have at least some trust in scientists to do what is right . A median of 36 % have `` a lot '' of trust in scientists , the same share who say this about the military , and much higher than the shares who say this about business leaders , the national government and the news media .
When asked about the financial situation of average people in their country , roughly equal pluralities of Germans and Americans say it is worse than it was 20 years ago ( 46 % and 45 % , respectively ) . And only about a third in each country believe the financial situation of ordinary people is better .
According to Comscore TV Essentials® data , viewership increased for the three major cable news channels ( CNN , Fox News and MSNBC ) in 2018 . The average combined audience ( defined as the average number of TVs tuned to a program throughout a time period ) for the prime news time slot ( 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. ) of these three networks increased 8 % , to about 1.25 million . ( Audience data for the three major financial networks – CNBC , Fox Business and Bloomberg – is not included here . ) The average audience for the daytime news time slot ( 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. ) increased by 5 % .
Ten states accounted for nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) of newly enrolled foreign students at U.S. colleges and universities in 2016 .
This overall decline in circulation coincided with a double-digit decline in advertising revenue for the industry as a whole . A separate Pew Research Center analysis based on the year-end financial statements of seven publicly traded U.S. newspaper companies suggests that advertising revenue across the industry declined even more sharply than in recent years : a 10 % decline , which outpaces the 8 % decline in 2015 . ( More details about this analysis are also available in the newspaper industry fact sheet . ) This decline put total ad revenue for the industry in 2016 at $ 18 billion . This is nearly a third of what it was just 10 years ago : In 2006 , the Newspaper Association of America , now known as the News Media Alliance , put total industry ad revenue at $ 49 billion . By contrast , circulation revenue has been steady over the past few years , rising from $ 10.4 billion in 2012 to $ 10.9 billion in both 2015 and 2016 . This is a small bright spot for the industry , and comes as some publishers are pursuing a `` subscription-first model '' by focusing on growing the number of subscribers rather than retaining advertising revenue . Still , gains in circulation revenue have not been nearly enough to make up for losses in advertising revenue – a pattern that holds true even at the large newspapers and major chains . According to year-end financial statements , The New York Times saw a year-over-year decline of 9 % in advertising revenue but a 3 % rise in circulation revenue , for an overall revenue decline of 2 % . Tronc , which has emphasized digital innovation in changing its name from Tribune Publishing , saw an 8 % decline in advertising revenue and a 4 % decline in total revenue , though circulation revenue increased 5 % . ( Tronc owns the Chicago Tribune and Los Angeles Times , among other papers . ) And Gannett saw no change in its advertising revenue , but this was due mainly to the company 's acquisition of additional newspapers over the course of the year ; once these new acquisitions are taken out of the equation , ad revenue declined by 13 % . ( The Washington Post , as a private company , does not publish its financial results , but the company 's chief revenue officer said in a recent New York Times article that 2017 would be `` our third straight year of double-digit revenue growth . '' )
Media companies ' rush to acquire local television stations produced largely positive results in the third quarter , but some companies suffered losses tied to a plunge in advertising dollars . The leaders were Nexstar , at 40 % growth , and Sinclair , at 35 % . Nexstar owns 75 television stations , which reach 44 markets across the country , and Sinclair operates 163 television stations in 77 markets . Seven companies showed revenue declines year-to-year , with Scripps ( -21 % ) and Washington Post Co. ( -18 % ) suffering the biggest losses . ( Following the sale of the flagship paper , The Washington Post Co. is being renamed the Graham Holdings Co. ) Scripps owns 19 local TV stations in 13 markets and The Washington Post Co. owns six stations in major cities in Florida , Texas and Michigan .
Far fewer members of Congress now have direct military experience than in the past . In the current Congress , 96 members served in the military at some point in their lives , down from 102 in the previous Congress , according to Military Times . There are more than twice as many Republican veterans ( 66 ) in the new Congress as Democrats ( 30 ) . Today , 19 % of senators and 18 % of representatives have served in the military . ( This analysis was conducted prior to the Feb. 10 death of Rep. Walter Jones , a North Carolina Republican who served in the Army National Guard . ) While the number and share of veterans in Congress overall have decreased , the newly elected freshman class boasts the largest number of veterans in a decade ( 19 ) . Looking at the longer term , there has been a dramatic decrease in members of Congress with military experience since the late 20th century . Between 1965 and 1975 , at least 70 % of lawmakers in each legislative chamber had military experience . The share of members with military experience peaked at 75 % in 1967 for the House and at 81 % in 1975 for the Senate .
Muslims experienced the greatest natural increase among all religious groups , including Christians . Births to Muslims between 2010 and 2015 outnumbered deaths by 152 million ( 213 million births vs. 61 million deaths ) . Globally , all major groups had more births than deaths .
The percentage of internet users who are on Twitter has more than doubled since November 2010 , currently standing at 18 % . Internet users ages 18 - 29 are the most likely to use Twitter . The following chart shows Twitter use by age group , over time :
Facebook users are more likely to post and comment on political content , whereas Twitter users are more likely to follow news organizations and political parties . About a third ( 32 % ) of Facebook users post about politics and government , compared with a quarter ( 25 % ) of Twitter users . ( These figures refer to all users , not just news users ) . Additionally , about three-in-ten ( 28 % ) Facebook users comment on posts about government and politics and 43 % `` like '' posts .
Perceptions of the nature of the border problem factor into public views on this debate . The survey finds that a majority of the public ( 55 % ) believes that the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally is higher now than it was 10 years ago while about four-in-ten believe it is the same ( 27 % ) or lower ( 15 % ) today . Those who believe the illegal immigration rate has risen are more likely than others to say legal status should come only after improvements are made to border security .
News interest rose across all age groups over the course of the shutdown , however , young people ( under age 30 ) lagged well behind other age groups in following shutdown news . About a third ( 34 % ) of those ages 18 - 29 say they followed news about the resolution of the shutdown and debt limit increase very closely , interest was far higher among older Americans . For example , 63 % of those ages 65 and older paid very close attention to the shutdown news . Over the past month , news interest has increased at least 20 points across all age groups , with gaps in interest between older and younger Americans staying relatively stable . While younger Americans typically pay less attention to news events than older Americans , the gap on the government shutdown is particularly wide .
In addition to the trend questions , we also asked five new questions about the profile teens use most often and found that among teen social media users :
The public continues to have divided views of Barack Obama 's job performance : 46 % approve and 49 % disapprove of the way he is handling his job as president . His overall rating is little changed over the course of 2015 . Obama 's ratings for handling the economy ( 43 % approve ) and immigration policy ( 37 % approve ) are more negative than positive . He receives mixed ratings for his handling of global climate change ( 45 % approve , 40 % disapprove ) and race relations ( 44 % approve , 47 % disapprove ) .
More than half of the public ( 56 % ) says they have a favorable opinion of Barack Obama , down from 65 % in November 2009 . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) say they have a favorable opinion of Michelle Obama , about the same as the 71 % that said this in November . Still , the latest Pew Research/National Journal Congressional Connection Poll , sponsored by SHRM , shows both Barack and Michelle Obama with somewhat higher negative ratings . Barack Obama 's unfavorable rating increased nine points from 30 % in November to 39 % ; Michelle Obama 's increased six points from 16 % to 22 % .
A new Indiana religious freedom law has sparked national debate since Gov . Mike Pence signed it last week . While its supporters say it strengthens protection of religious liberty , critics have argued that it could provide legal cover for businesses to discriminate , such as a florist or caterer who may not want to provide services for a same-sex wedding because of religious objections . A Pew Research Center survey last year found a U.S. public divided over these types of issues . The survey asked Americans whether businesses that provide wedding services should be allowed to refuse service to same-sex couples on religious grounds , or whether they should be required to provide services . Roughly equal shares of U.S. adults answered the question each way , with 49 % saying businesses should be required to serve same-sex weddings , and 47 % saying businesses should be permitted to refuse service due to religious objections .
Roughly a quarter of U.S. adults ( 27 % ) say they have n't read a book in whole or in part in the past year , whether in print , electronic or audio form , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Jan. 8 to Feb. 7. Who are these non-book readers ? Several demographic traits correlate with non-book reading , Pew Research Center surveys have found . For instance , adults with a high school diploma or less are far more likely than those with a bachelor 's or advanced degree to report not reading books in any format in the 12 months before the survey ( 44 % vs. 8 % ) . Adults with lower levels of educational attainment are also among the least likely to own smartphones , a device that saw a substantial increase in usage for reading e-books from 2011 to 2016 . ( College-educated adults are more likely to own these devices and use them to read e-books . ) Adults whose annual household income is $ 30,000 or less are more likely than those living in households earning $ 75,000 or more a year to be non-book readers ( 36 % vs. 14 % ) . Hispanic ( 40 % ) and black ( 33 % ) adults are more likely than whites ( 22 % ) to report not having read a book in the past 12 months . But there are differences between Hispanics born inside and outside the United States : 56 % of foreign-born Hispanics report not having read a book , compared with 27 % of Hispanics born in the U.S .
In a December 2012 survey , Clinton 's popularity was approaching an all-time high , although the poll was conducted just before the controversy over the bombing of the U.S. consulate in Benghazi , Libya . Nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) said they had a favorable impression of her while just 29 % had an unfavorable view . Throughout Clinton 's tenure as secretary of state she enjoyed consistently high favorability ratings – at least 60 % or so . But her ratings during the previous 17 years were often quite mixed . The low point for her when it came to the public 's view was during Bill Clinton 's first term . Her tenure during that period was characterized by policy failures ( revamping the health care system ) and personal scandals ( she was subpoenaed in an investigation into the so-called Whitewater scandal , a failed real estate deal in Arkansas ) . Both took a toll : in January and February 1996 , 54 % expressed unfavorable views of Clinton – the highest negative ratings of her career . Read more
In a similar vein , the Pew Research Center recently reported that the share of Americans who identify with the middle class has fallen sharply in recent years , dropping to 44 % in the latest survey from 53 % in 2008 during the first months of the Great Recession .
With the Republican-controlled House , the Democratic-run Senate and President Obama headed for a showdown — yes , another one — over raising the federal debt ceiling , it 's perhaps helpful to remember that the statutory limit on government debt has been a bipartisan headache for decades . Since 1980 , according to this interactive graphic from The Washington Post , the debt limit has been increased 42 times , under both Republican and Democratic presidents and every possible configuration of partisan control in Congress . The limit now stands at $ 16.699 trillion , up from $ 1.39 trillion three decades ago ; Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew has said the government will hit that limit by Oct. 17 .
Americans continue to have positive views of the nation 's economy , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . A majority of the public ( 55 % ) says that national economic conditions are excellent or good . This is little changed since January but remains one of the most positive assessments of national economic conditions in nearly two decades .
India replaces China as the world 's most populous country : India 's population is expected to increase by 400 million by 2050 . Its projected population of 1.6 billion will be almost equal to the populations of the U.S. and China combined . China is projected to add only 25 million residents .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that nearly all Israeli Jews self-identify with one of four subgroups : Haredi ( `` ultra-Orthodox '' ) , Dati ( `` religious '' ) , Masorti ( `` traditional '' ) and Hiloni ( `` secular '' ) . Beyond differences in religious belief and practice , these groups inhabit largely distinct social worlds characterized by their own lifestyles and politics . Following is a short profile of each of these four major religious groups , based on the ways Israeli Jews in the new survey describe themselves :
Nearly eight-in-ten Americans ( 79 % ) say they heard at least a little about a warning by the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) that caffeinated alcoholic beverages are unsafe . About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they heard a lot about this , while 37 % say they heard a little . Several political figures in the news last week registered similar amounts of public awareness . More than six-in-ten ( 64 % ) heard either a lot ( 31 % ) or a little ( 33 % ) about the House Ethics Committee finding New York Congressman Charlie Rangel guilty of ethics violations . A similar majority ( 62 % ) heard at least a little about Sarah Palin 's new television show on TLC ( 25 % heard a lot , 37 % a little ) and close to six-in-ten ( 59 % ) heard a lot ( 24 % ) or a little ( 35 % ) about Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski winning her write-in campaign for re-election to the U.S. Senate .
Overall , 72 % of college graduates support this proposal , compared with 60 % of those with some college and 50 % of those with no more than a high school education . Within both parties , well-educated people are more likely to support setting limits on carbon dioxide emissions than are those with less education . Among Republicans , 50 % of college graduates favor setting emissions limits for carbon dioxide compared with 37 % of those who have not completed college . The educational differences are even larger among Democrats ( 91 % of college graduates vs. 62 % of non-college graduates ) . More women ( 63 % ) than men ( 55 % ) support placing a limit on carbon dioxide emissions . There are regional differences in opinions on this issue : Two-thirds ( 66 % ) of those living in the West support capping carbon emissions compared with 58 % in the Midwest and 53 % in the South . The difference is larger when regions are combined ; 64 % of those living in the Northeast or the West support limiting carbon emissions , compared with 56 % of people living in the Midwest or the South .
Compared with older adults , social media users under the age of 50 are especially likely to say that these tools help them keep up with existing friends and reconnect with old ones—roughly seven in ten users under the age of fifty say that staying in touch with current friends is a major reason they use online social platforms , and just over half say that connecting with old friends they 've lost touch with is equally important . Each of these is significantly higher than comparable figures for users ages 50 and older , although a relatively large number of older adults point to connections with friends as a major reason for their social networking site usage as well .
A narrow majority of American parents say parents could never be too involved in a child 's education , but about four-in-ten say too much involvement could be a bad thing . Parents with family incomes of $ 75,000 or higher are more than twice as likely as parents with incomes below $ 30,000 to say that too much parental involvement in education could be a bad thing ( 59 % vs. 23 % ) . Parents with at least a bachelor 's degree are also more likely to say this than parents with lower levels of education .
Among all registered voters , Hillary Clinton registers the greatest share of support . One-third ( 33 % ) of voters say there is a good chance they would vote for her , while an additional 19 % say there is at least some chance . No more than 13 % say there is a good chance they would vote for any single other candidate . However , among the field of possible candidates beyond Clinton , there is little differentiation at this early stage . This is particularly the case when it comes to possible GOP contenders : Jeb Bush , Mike Huckabee , Rand Paul , Ted Cruz , Marco Rubio , Scott Walker and Ben Carson all have about one-in-ten registered voters saying there is a good chance they would vote for them . At this stage , there is considerable variance in awareness of potential candidates . Virtually all voters have heard of Clinton , and Biden and Jeb Bush also are widely known . Among the other Republicans , Mike Huckabee , Chris Christie , Rand Paul , Ted Cruz , Rick Perry , and Marco Rubio are familiar to at least two-thirds of voters . But fewer than half of all voters have heard of Bobby Jindal , Ben Carson or Scott Walker . Among the other Democrats , just over half of voters have heard of Elizabeth Warren and less than a third say they are familiar with either Jim Webb or Martin O'Malley .
If Baquet is an historic figure at the Times , he is also part of a small minority at U.S. news outlets . Our data analysis finds that in newspaper newsrooms , the percentage of overall staffers and supervisors who are black , Hispanic , Asian , Native American or multiracial has remained virtually unchanged in the past two decades—accounting for about one in every 10 positions . The situation is slightly different in broadcast news , where minority staffers are still vastly outnumbered , but their presence has , in some cases , risen modestly . According to the 2012 newspaper newsroom census from the American Society of News Editors ( the latest available data ) , minorities account for 12 % of the workforce . That represents virtually no change since 1994 , when minorities represented 11 % of newsroom employees and a decline from the high point of 14 % in 2005 . ( The percentage of women in newsrooms has also remained unchanged—at around 35 % —since the late 1990s . )
The survey also finds that far more voters continue to favor a smaller government with fewer services than a bigger government that provides more services . Currently , 56 % say they would rather have a smaller government providing fewer services ; 35 % prefer a bigger government . These opinions have changed little over the course of Obama 's presidency . In October 2008 , however , opinion was more evenly divided ( 46 % smaller government vs. 40 % bigger government ) .
Israelis and Palestinians also differ on views of Obama . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) Israelis express confidence in the American president to do the right thing regarding world affairs , up from 49 % in 2011 . In the Palestinian territories , just 15 % have confidence in Obama , while 82 % have little or no confidence in him . In Israel , opinions of Obama are far more positive among Jews than among Arabs . More than six-in-ten ( 64 % ) Jews express confidence in the American president , compared with about half ( 48 % ) of Arabs .
Finally , record discontent with Congress – and dim views of elected officials generally – have poisoned the well for trust in the federal government . Undoubtedly , this has contributed to growing discontent with government even among groups who are generally more positive about it , such as Democrats . Today , many fewer Democrats say they trust government than did so during the later Clinton years . And just 40 % of Democrats have a favorable impression of the Democratic Congress – the lowest positive rating for Congress ever among members of the majority party .
Americans ' views of NATO differ by political party affiliation . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents have been more likely to have a favorable opinion of NATO than Republicans and Republican-leaning independents across most years . That remained true in 2019 , as 61 % of Democrats had a positive view of the alliance , compared with 45 % of Republicans . Both Democratic and Republican views of NATO remained generally stable until 2017 , when Democrats grew much more likely to support NATO than their counterparts , a difference that has not changed significantly since . In 2017 , 74 % of Democrats and 48 % of Republicans had a favorable opinion of the alliance , a difference of 26 percentage points . Since 2018 , U.S. views of NATO have declined among supporters of both parties . Positive views among Democrats fell 15 points , while views among Republicans dropped 7 points .
Meanwhile , more than three-in-ten say water and air pollution are very big problems , and about seven-in-ten consider them at least a moderately big problem . Moreover , many Chinese are willing to make tradeoffs to address environmental challenges . Half of those polled believe China should reduce air pollution even if it means slower economic growth , while just 24 % think air pollution is the necessary price of a growing economy .
Majorities of Americans say the federal government is doing too little to protect key aspects of the environment including water ( 69 % ) and air quality ( 64 % ) . And two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say the government is doing too little to reduce the effects of climate change . These findings come after a year of change in climate and energy regulatory policies under the Trump administration .
Americans ' views of China have continued to sour , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Today , 73 % of U.S. adults say they have an unfavorable view of the country , up 26 percentage points since 2018 . Since March alone , negative views of China have increased 7 points , and there is a widespread sense that China mishandled the initial outbreak and subsequent spread of COVID-19 .
Nearly half of all Americans ( 46 % ) say they paid very close attention to news that Congress and President Obama reached an agreement last week to cut federal spending and raise the debt limit . The public followed this news as closely as the budget battle in early April that nearly led to a federal government shutdown . About half ( 47 % ) followed those negotiations very closely . The debt limit agreement was the week 's top story in terms of both interest and coverage : 45 % say it is the news they followed most closely . For its part , the media devoted 26 % of all coverage to the debt deal .
Across these positive statements , Black , Hispanic and Asian users often have more similar views than White users . Around three-quarters of Black , Hispanic and Asian users say the statement `` social media help give a voice to underrepresented groups '' describes social media very or somewhat well , compared with a smaller share of White users ( 58 % ) who agree , according to July 2020 data .
As 77 million kids prepare to head back to school in the coming weeks , the public says major changes are needed in the way the education system works in this country . Overall , 66 % say either that the education system in this country needs to be completely rebuilt ( 21 % ) or that it requires major changes ( 45 % ) ; only 31 % think the system works pretty well and requires only minor changes .
Biden and Trump supporters say they fundamentally disagree with each other not just on political priorities , but on core American values . In an October survey , eight-in-ten registered voters who supported Biden ( 80 % ) – and a similar share of those who supported Trump ( 77 % ) – said they fundamentally disagree with the other side on `` core American values and goals . '' Only around one-in-five in each group said their differences are limited to politics and policies . In the same survey , 90 % of Biden supporters and 89 % of Trump supporters said there would be `` lasting harm '' to the nation if the other candidate won the election .
Half of Latinos say their situation in the U.S. has worsened over the past year , up from 32 % in the weeks after Donald Trump won the 2016 presidential election and the highest level since the Great Recession .1 In addition , more say they have serious concerns about their place in American society now ( 49 % ) than in 2017 ( 41 % ) . And a majority ( 55 % ) say they are worried that they , a family member or close friend could be deported . Half of Hispanic adults ( 49 % ) are foreign born , and as a group they have stronger concern than those born in the U.S . Immigrants are more likely than U.S.-born Hispanics to say they have serious concerns about their place in U.S. society ( 57 % vs. 42 % ) , and they worry a lot or some about deportation ( 66 % vs. 43 % ) . Foreign-born Hispanics are also more pronounced in their criticism of the Trump administration : 71 % say White House policies have been harmful to Hispanics as a group , compared with 63 % of U.S.-born Hispanics who say the same .
The island 's total population ( including Hispanics and non-Hispanics ) decreased by about 200,000 people from 2000 to 2013 , with about two-thirds of Puerto Rican municipalities having lost population during those years ( see maps ) . The Census Bureau projects the island 's population loss will continue gradually through at least 2050 , when about 3 million people will live there .
Republicans largely disapprove of the law across levels of educational attainment , but views of the government 's role in ensuring health care coverage vary widely by education . Republicans and Republican leaners with no more than a high school diploma are nearly twice as likely as those with a college degree to say ensuring health care coverage is a government responsibility ( 43 % vs. 22 % ) .
There are not major differences between partisans on this issue . At the same time , there are differences in these attitudes by race and ethnicity . The vast majority of White adults ( 82 % ) find social media companies using data about their users ' online activities to target them with ads from political campaigns to be not very or not at all acceptable , compared with smaller shares – though still majorities – of Black , Hispanic and Asian Americans .
Among American adults as a whole – including those who attend worship services and those who do n't – majorities say that religious organizations should stay out of politics and that they should n't endorse political candidates . Around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 76 % ) say churches and other houses of worship should not come out in favor of candidates during elections . Protestants in the historically black tradition ( a majority of whom are Democrats or lean toward the Democratic Party ) and evangelical Protestants ( a majority of whom are Republican or lean toward the Republican Party ) are more inclined than other major U.S. religious groups to say church endorsements are OK .
According to the 2010 NSL , nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) Hispanic adults who are not citizens or legal permanent residents say they attend religious services weekly . An additional 23 % say they attend services at least once or twice a month . And one-in-five ( 19 % ) say they attend services seldom or never .
Nearly four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 38 % ) identify as politically independent , but most `` lean '' toward one of the two major parties . Only 7 % of Americans overall do n't express a partisan leaning , while 13 % lean toward the Republican Party and 17 % lean toward the Democratic Party .
Trump 's ratings in Western Europe look a lot like Bush 's at the end of his tenure . While Obama was very popular in Western Europe , his presidency was bookended by two very unpopular Republican presidents . Major elements of George W. Bush 's foreign policies met with widespread opposition in the region , and by the time he left office , his ratings in countries like the United Kingdom , Germany , France and Spain were quite low . Today , Trump gets similar marks as Bush in these four nations .
Overall , black immigrants ( 28 % ) are somewhat less likely than the overall U.S. population ( 31 % ) to have a college degree or more , but black immigrants from Africa are more likely than Americans overall to have a college degree or higher . But educational attainment varies widely by country of origin . For example , 59 % of foreign-born blacks from Nigeria have a bachelor 's or advanced degree – a share that is roughly double that of the overall population . By comparison , just 10 % of black immigrants from Somalia have earned at least a bachelor 's degree .
For independents , by contrast , negative motives are cited most frequently among the reasons for leaning toward a party . Among Republican-leaning independents , 55 % say a major reason for leaning toward the GOP is that Democratic policies are harmful to the country . Just 30 % cite the positive effects of Republican policies .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 18 - 22 among 1,504 adults , also finds a shift over the past year in public attitudes about the best approach for dealing with global terrorism . In the new survey , 47 % say `` using overwhelming military force is the best way to defeat terrorism around the world . '' About as many ( 46 % ) say that `` relying too much on military force to defeat terrorism creates hatred that leads to more terrorism . '' In the Pew Research Center 's political typology survey , conducted Jan. 23-Mar . 16 , 2014 , 57 % said an over-reliance on military force creates more hatred leading to increased terrorism , while fewer ( 37 % ) said that overwhelming military force is the best way to defeat global terrorism . There is a wide and growing partisan divide in these attitudes : Today , 74 % of Republicans say the best way to defeat global terrorism is with `` overwhelming force , '' up from 57 % a year ago . Meanwhile , Democrats ' attitudes are virtually unchanged . Just 30 % of Democrats favor the use of overwhelming force to defeat terrorism ; 29 % said this last March .
Whatever one 's feelings about the health care-reform measure , more Americans are covered by some form of health insurance now – whether employer-provided , purchased on an exchange or obtained via Medicaid or Medicare – than when Obama took office . According to the Census Bureau , 16.1 % of Americans ( nearly 49 million ) were uninsured in 2009 ; by 2014 , the last year for which there are data , only 10.4 % ( almost 33 million ) Americans lacked health coverage .
Americans both see this problem and want to address it . Overwhelming majorities of both Trump ( 86 % ) and Biden ( 89 % ) supporters surveyed this fall said that their preferred candidate , if elected , should focus on addressing the needs of all Americans , `` even if it means disappointing some of his supporters . ''
U.S. newspaper circulation reached its lowest level since 1940 , the first year with available data . Total daily newspaper circulation ( print and digital combined ) was an estimated 28.6 million for weekday and 30.8 million for Sunday in 2018 . Those numbers were down 8 % and 9 % , respectively , from the previous year , according to the Center 's analysis of Alliance for Audited Media data . Both figures are now below their lowest recorded levels , though weekday circulation first passed this threshold in 2013 .
According to South Africa 's 2011 census , average annual household income for blacks was 60,613 rand ( roughly $ 8,700 at the then-current exchange rate ) , about a sixth the average annual income among white households and a quarter that of Asian households . Mixed-race ( or `` coloured '' in South African parlance ) households had an average income about twice that of blacks . ( Note that those figures are in current dollars , and so are n't directly comparable to the inflation-adjusted ones in the Economist chart . )
The Philippines is one of 16 official major non-NATO allies of the U.S . The two countries have maintained a strong military relationship for decades , but Duterte has made it a point to court the favor of China , sometimes at the cost of distancing his country from the U.S. Duterte 's balancing act between the two powers has received mostly positive reviews : 63 % of Filipinos approve of his handling of relations with the U.S. and 53 % approve of how he 's handled relations with China . In the Philippines , the public is still more favorable toward the U.S. than China . Roughly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) have a positive view of the U.S. , compared with 55 % for China . But positive feelings toward the U.S. are down 14 percentage points since 2015 ( when Barack Obama was the U.S. president ) , which coincides with a global decline in U.S. favorability at the beginning of the Donald Trump era . On the other hand , favorable opinion of China has changed little since 2015 and is up 17 points since 2014 , when most Filipinos were concerned that territorial disputes with China could lead to a military conflict .
In general terms , most Americans think U.S. democracy is working at least somewhat well . Yet a 61 % majority says `` significant changes '' are needed in the fundamental `` design and structure '' of American government to make it work in current times . When asked to compare the U.S. political system with those of other developed nations , fewer than half rate it `` above average '' or `` best in the world . ''
Of the two issues , climate change is the more commonly selected threat in eight of 14 countries polled , while five name the spread of infectious diseases as a top threat ( the Canadian public is split , with equal shares citing climate change and the spread of disease ) . Majorities in each of the countries surveyed say both global climate change and the spread of infectious diseases are major threats to their country . The share who say climate change is a major threat in each country ranges from 59 % in Australia to 83 % in France , Spain and Italy . Two-thirds or more say the same in Canada , Germany , the Netherlands , Belgium , the UK , Japan and South Korea .
The middle groups in the typology are less predictable . To be sure , the Faith and Family Left and the Next Generation Left favor Democratic congressional candidates this year by roughly two-to-one margins . But they supported Barack Obama by wider margins in 2012 , and their 2014 turnout is suspect . One early indicator of voter turnout is attention to government and public affairs , and fewer than half in these groups are following politics , compared with broad majorities in the more ideological groups . And the Hard-Pressed Skeptics – who say they supported Obama over Romney by a 65 % -25 % margin two years ago – are more closely divided in 2014 . As they look toward this year 's midterms , 51 % plan to vote for the Democrat in their congressional district , while 37 % plan to vote Republican . And the Republican-leaning Young Outsiders intend to vote Republican this fall by a somewhat larger margin ( 20 points ) than they did in 2012 ( 11 points ) . Yet these groups also are less certain to turn out this fall compared with the more partisan bases .
This survey also finds that half of Americans say President Donald Trump is `` striking about the right balance '' in dealing with the two sides . Roughly a third ( 34 % ) say Trump is favoring the Israelis too much , while 6 % say he is favoring the Palestinians too much . A wide majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 79 % ) say Trump is striking the right balance . Few Republicans say he is favoring either the Israelis ( 11 % ) or the Palestinians too much ( 3 % ) . Conservative Republicans ( 84 % ) and moderate and liberal Republicans ( 73 % ) largely agree that Trump is taking the right approach to the Middle East . About half of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 53 % ) , on the other hand , say Trump is favoring the Israelis too much ; 29 % say he is striking about the right balance , and 8 % say he favors the Palestinians too much . By a wide margin , most liberal Democrats ( 66 % ) say Trump is favoring the Israelis too much . Moderate and conservative Democrats are more divided : 43 % say he is favoring the Israelis too much , while nearly as many say he is striking the right balance ( 38 % ) .
News about the spread of the H1N1 virus – and uncertainty about its potential danger – grabbed people 's attention in a busy news week that also included the bankruptcy filing by Chrysler , the 100th day of the Obama presidency and a party switch by veteran senator Arlen Specter . Still , close to four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say they followed news about the virus more closely than any other story . Reporting about the swine flu also dominated news coverage . According to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , reporting on the virus accounted for 31 % of the newshole examined . No other story came close .
Puerto Rico 's population last saw modest increases in the 1990s , and in recent years has experienced accelerating declines . Losses started around the beginning of the island 's economic recession in 2006 and have continued since then . From 2015 to 2018 , Puerto Rico 's population decreased by 2.7 % per year on average , compared with 1.4 % from 2010 to 2015 .
Pew Research Center has increased the share of interviews conducted on cellphones in typical surveys from 25 % in 2007 to 75 % in 2016 in response to the widespread adoption of cellphones . This means that any differences between cellphone sample estimates and total sample estimates should naturally narrow over time , as the former constitutes an increasingly large share of the latter .
An overwhelming majority ( 69 % ) say that Islam plays a large role in the political life of Turkey , with only 26 % saying it plays a small role . Since 2005 , six-in-ten or more have said Islam is a major force in Turkish politics . However , in 2002 , prior to Erdogan 's election as prime minister , the public was split : 45 % said Islam played a large role , while 43 % said a small role .
The risk of divorce for adults ages 50 and older is also higher among those who have been married for a shorter time . For example , among adults 50 and older who had been married for less than 10 years , the divorce rate was 21 people per 1,000 married persons in 2015 . By contrast , the divorce rate is 13 people per 1,000 married persons for adults ages 50 and older who had been married for 20 to 29 years . This is largely connected to remarriages being less stable than first marriages . In fact , most adults in this group who have been married less than 20 years were in their second or higher marriage .
In January , 2005 , some 22 % of email users say that spam has reduced their overall use of email – 3 percent less than numbers from 19 months earlier ; and 53 % say that spam has made them less trusting of email in general – one per cent more than 19 months earlier . The effect of spam on the internet in general also decreased to a new low ; some 67 % of users said spam made being online unpleasant or annoying — 4 points below numbers from 19 months earlier .
While most see obesity as a substantial public health issue , there is limited support for the government playing a major role in anti-obesity efforts . Overall , 42 % say government should play a significant role in reducing obesity , 54 % say it should not . While majorities of Republicans and Democrats say obesity has broad social consequences , there are sharp partisan differences about whether the government should have a role in reducing obesity . By a margin of 60 % -37 % , Democrats believe the government should play a significant role in curbing obesity . But just 20 % of Republicans say this , while 77 % of Republicans do not want the government to play a significant role . Among independents , more say the government should not play a significant role ( 56 % ) than say that it should ( 41 % ) .
The economy , meanwhile , continues to dominate both public interest and news coverage . Three-in-ten say they followed reports about the economy more closely than any other story last week . Another 17 % say they followed reports on Obama 's budget proposal most closely and 8 % say they followed administration plans to expand federal regulation of financial institutions most closely . Stories about the economy – including Obama 's budget proposal – filled up 41 % of the media newshole , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . With Obama 's historic campaign dominating media coverage in the run up to the Nov. 4 election , the public at times seemed to think the Democratic candidate was overexposed . In early August , about two-thirds of Republicans ( 67 % ) said they were hearing too much about Obama , compared with 51 % of independents and 34 % of Democrats .
The share of Republicans who hold negative views of the effect of colleges and universities on the country has grown significantly since 2015 . Nearly six-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners ( 58 % ) now say colleges have a negative effect . Two years ago , by contrast , 54 % of Republicans said colleges were having a positive effect . Democrats and Democratic leaners have consistently held positive views of the effect of colleges on the U.S. ; 72 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say this today .
Overall , more digital news consumers get their news online in the process of doing other things online ( 55 % ) than specifically seek out the news ( 44 % ) , though there are differences by social media platform . About six-in-ten YouTube ( 58 % ) , Facebook ( 62 % ) and Instagram ( 63 % ) news users get their news online mostly by chance while they are online doing other things , and they are less likely to say they were looking for news . However , Reddit , Twitter and LinkedIn news users are just as likely to say they seek out news online as to say they happen upon it .
When it comes to personal communication devices , the cell phone remains the `` gadget of choice '' among Americans in 2010—fully 85 % of all adults ( and three-quarters of teens ) now own a mobile phone . Computers are the second-most commonly owned piece of personal technology , as six in ten Americans own a desktop computer and half own a laptop . Just under half of all adults own an mp3 player ( 47 % ) or console gaming device ( 42 % ) , while e-book readers and tablet computers are currently each owned by around one in twenty adults .
Whites , as well as college graduates and those with higher incomes , are more likely than nonwhites to have spoken with or been interviewed by a local journalist , according to a survey by Pew Research Center . About three-in-ten whites ( 29 % ) say they have ever spoken with or been interviewed by a local journalist or reporter , compared with 19 % of nonwhites . ( Nonwhite includes all racial and ethnic groups except non-Hispanic white . ) This difference is particularly striking given that nonwhites generally are more engaged consumers of local news than whites . For instance , while 43 % of nonwhites follow local news very closely , only a third of whites say the same – a similar pattern to what we found in our 2015 study of local news habits in three cities . Experiences in talking to local journalists also differ starkly by respondents ' level of education . Those with a college degree are twice as likely to have spoken with a local journalist as those who have never been to college . Just over a third ( 36 % ) of those with at least a college degree say they have spoken with a local reporter , compared with 23 % of those with some college education and 18 % of those with a high school diploma or less . A similar pattern is evident when considering Americans ' income levels , with those earning $ 75,000 or more per year being most likely to have been interviewed by a local journalist .
Hispanics are more likely than Americans overall to say they or someone in their household has experienced a pay cut or lost their job because of the coronavirus outbreak , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted March 19 - 24 . Around half ( 49 % ) of Hispanics say they or someone in their household has taken a pay cut or lost a job – or both – because of the COVID-19 outbreak , compared with 33 % of all U.S. adults . Among both Hispanics and the wider public , more people say someone has experienced a pay cut or a reduction in work hours than say someone was laid off or lost a job ( 40 % vs. 29 % among Hispanics , 27 % vs. 20 % among all Americans ) . A recent Center analysis found about 8 million Hispanic workers were employed in restaurants , hotels and other service-sector positions that are at higher risk of job loss .
Older Americans are more opposed to the use of military force than those in other age groups , but most believe that , in principle , the best way to ensure peace is through military strength rather than effective diplomacy . Americans under age 30 generally favor the opposite approach . Since 1987 , the belief in military strength as the best way to ensure peace has never fallen below 60 % among those ages 65 and older , while on average only 44 % of younger Americans subscribe to that opinion .
The rise of e-book reading is tied to the steady increase in ownership of tablet computers and e-readers . 50 % of adults now own either a tablet computer or an e- reader .
For decades , the public has sympathized with Israel over the Palestinians and that remains the case today . Overall , 50 % say they sympathize more with Israel , compared with just 10 % who say they sympathize more with the Palestinians ; almost a quarter ( 23 % ) do not offer an opinion while 13 % volunteer that they sympathize with neither side , and 4 % say both .
One-in-seven U.S. adults ( 14 % ) say they have tested positive for COVID-19 or are `` pretty sure '' they have had it despite not receiving an official diagnosis , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Aug. 3 to 16 . The survey also finds a sharp increase since the spring in the share of Americans who say they know someone else who has been hospitalized or died due to COVID-19 .
As the initial decision to use military force in Afghanistan grows more distant , public opinion has become more divided on whether it was the right decision or wrong decision . Today , 45 % say the U.S. made the right decision in using military force and 39 % say it was the wrong decision .
There also are sizable gender and race differences in views of both candidates . More than half of women voters ( 53 % ) give cold ratings to Pence , while just 32 % give him warm ratings . Women voters have mixed views of Harris ( 44 % cold , 40 % warm ) . About half of men voters give cold ratings to both candidates ( 49 % Pence , 53 % Harris ) , while fewer view each warmly . Black voters have largely positive opinions of Harris . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) give her warm ratings , more than twice the share ( 21 % ) who feel cold toward her . Most Black voters ( 73 % ) feel coldly toward Pence , including 67 % who give him very cold ratings – that is , 0 to 24 on the feeling thermometer .
Nearly nine-in-ten Americans ( 87 % ) agree with this idea when it comes to potentially embarrassing photos and videos . Majorities also think Americans should have a right to have personal financial data collected by a tax preparer ( 79 % ) and personal medical data collected by a health care provider ( 69 % ) deleted by the organization or person who holds the information . Far fewer ( 36 % ) think personal data collected by law enforcement – like criminal records or mugshots – should be able to be deleted , which tracks with the findings around the removal of such data from public online search results .
A narrow majority ( 56 % ) of unpartnered adults are the head of their household . Some 35 % are living alone and 22 % are living with others in the home ( single parents would fall into this category ) . Nearly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) are living with a parent or grandparent , reflecting the fact that unpartnered adults are disproportionately young . An additional 16 % have some other relationship to the head of the household ( for example , a sibling or roommate ) .
Several initiatives have emerged recently to help newsrooms connect with the public , build trust and do a better job of bringing citizens ' voices into the news . But the news media have a long way to go , according to new data from Pew Research Center . Just 5 % of the more than 3,000 news stories studied during the first 100 days of the Trump presidency cited a member of the public , one of nine source types analyzed . Along the same lines , only 4 % of all stories cited public opinion polls , another way Americans ' views and attitudes get represented . Across the five main topic areas , the highest citation of polls was in stories about the president 's political skills ( 9 % ) and health care ( 8 % ) . There was , however , one type of news programming that gave far more voice to members of the public than any other : network evening news . In the time period studied , the four network evening news programs ( ABC , CBS , NBC and PBS ) were at least four times as likely as cable , digital or radio programming to cite at least one citizen in their stories – 17 % compared with 4 % or less among the other three formats . Network newscasts were as likely to cite poll numbers as other platforms , and were less likely to cite another journalist or news organization – 12 % compared with 30 % or more among the other platforms .
The figures , released by the bureau in March , count all arrests made by the federal government , ranging from traditional law enforcement entities , such as the Department of Justice ( DOJ ) and the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) , to less traditional ones , such as the Interior and Treasury departments . They do not include arrests made by state and local authorities , which make the vast majority of U.S. arrests each year ( nearly 99 % in 2014 ) . In 2014 , DHS made 59 % of all federal arrests , up from 37 % in 2004 ( the earliest year for which data are available following the department 's establishment in 2002 ) . By comparison , DOJ made 35 % of all federal arrests in 2014 , down from 48 % a decade earlier . In fact , just one agency within DHS – Customs and Border Protection – made more arrests in 2014 ( 64,954 ) than all of the agencies within DOJ combined ( 58,265 ) . DOJ agencies include the FBI , the Drug Enforcement Agency , the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms and Explosives and the U.S . Marshals Service .
Americans also continue to closely track the debate in Washington over health care reform . Close to three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say they followed stories about the health care debate very closely , about the same level that followed these stories very closely the previous week ( 29 % ) . This past week , 17 % say these were the stories they followed most closely . Stories about proposed changes to the health care system made up 7 % of the newshole examined by PEJ . A similar share ( 27 % ) say they very closely followed stories about new military threats from North Korea ; 12 % say they followed reports about those threats more closely than any other major stories . Those stories accounted for 4 % of the newshole .
A slight majority of Americans ( 53 % ) think it is generally unacceptable for a white person to use makeup to darken their skin to appear to be a different race as part of a Halloween costume , including 37 % who say this is never acceptable . About one-in-three ( 34 % ) say this is always or sometimes acceptable , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey .
Hispanics are the youngest major racial or ethnic group in the United States . About one-third , or 17.9 million , of the nation 's Hispanic population is younger than 18 , and about a quarter , or 14.6 million , of all Hispanics are Millennials ( ages 18 to 33 in 2014 ) , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . Altogether , nearly six-in-ten Hispanics are Millennials or younger .
There were 8 million unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. working or looking for work in 2014 , making up 5 % of the civilian labor force , according to new Pew Research Center estimates using government data . The number was unchanged and the share was down slightly since 2009 , the year the Great Recession officially ended .
The November election is still about four months away , yet most Americans are already worn out by the amount of news coverage of the 2016 presidential campaign . A new Pew Research Center survey conducted June 7-July 5 finds that about six-in-ten Americans ( 59 % ) feel exhausted by the amount of election coverage , while 39 % say they like getting a lot of coverage about the election . This feeling of fatigue is particularly true among those who are n't following news about the election very closely – 69 % of this group say they are worn out compared with about 41 % of those who follow the election very closely . That said , just because Americans are worn out by the amount of coverage does not imply that interest in or attention to the election itself is low . In fact , a recent Pew Research Center report showed that there was greater interest than during previous campaigns . Further , in February , we found that 91 % of Americans had learned about the election from at least one type of source in the previous week .
Americans ' observations about mask-wearing behavior in the areas where they live vary by the severity of COVID-19 health impacts in the community . About six-in-ten adults ( 62 % ) who live in counties with the highest COVID-19 death rates say that all or most people in their communities are wearing masks , compared with 33 % of those who live in areas that have the lowest number of coronavirus deaths per capita .
Vote choices are strongly related to voters ' underlying political attitudes and values , as evidenced by the fact that ideologically consistent voters are nearly uniformly supportive of the candidates of their respective political parties . Among likely voters who are consistent conservatives , 97 % say they will vote for the Republican candidate for U.S. House in their district ; 91 % of those with mostly conservative opinions will also do so . Among those with consistently liberal views , 94 % say they will vote Democratic , followed by 84 % among those with mostly liberal views .
Declaring `` Our long national nightmare is over , '' Ford famously granted Nixon a full pardon for Watergate , a decision that was immediately controversial . By a margin of 58 % to 33 % , the public thought Ford had done the `` wrong thing '' in a survey by Time magazine immediately following the pardon . This view persisted through the election of 1976 , which Ford lost to Democrat Jimmy Carter . Over time , the American public came to largely support Ford 's decision . A 2002 ABC poll found that about six-in-ten adults ( 59 % ) saw the pardon as the `` right thing , '' while just 32 % said it was wrong .
Bush Approval : Down on Iraq , Up on Economy While George W. Bush 's job approval rating overall has held relatively steady in recent months , the public has become significantly more critical of his handling of Iraq . Currently , just 23 % approve of how Bush is handling the situation in Iraq , down from 32 % in August , and 36 % a year ago in December 2005 . Meanwhile , disapproval has spiked up to 71 % from 61 % in August and 58 % last December .
Republicans ( 63 % ) are more likely than Democrats ( 56 % ) to say they consider the choice of the next Supreme Court to be very important to them personally . But nearly identical shares of liberal Democrats ( 67 % ) and conservative Republicans ( 68 % ) say the choice of the next Supreme Court justice is very important to them .
Unemployment varies widely by country in the EU , in many cases reflecting national differences in economic performance . In the first quarter of 2018 , the Czech Republic , Germany , Hungary and Poland had the lowest unemployment rates , while Greece , Spain , Italy , Croatia and Cyprus had the highest . Nearly all EU countries ' unemployment rates declined from the first quarter of 2013 – the end of Europe 's second recession – to the first quarter of 2018 , but the degree of change differed starkly between nations . The countries with the largest percentage-point decreases include Spain ( -10.0 percentage points ) , Portugal ( -9.7 ) and Ireland ( -8.7 ) , while unemployment decreased far more modestly in Austria ( -0.3 points ) , Luxembourg ( -0.3 ) , Italy ( -0.8 ) and France ( -1.1 ) . Only Finland ( +0.1 ) saw an increase during this time .
Americans are becoming less reliant on physical currency . Roughly three-in-ten U.S. adults ( 29 % ) say they make no purchases using cash during a typical week , up slightly from 24 % in 2015 . And the share who say that all or almost all of their weekly purchases are made using cash has modestly decreased , from 24 % in 2015 to 18 % today , according to a new Pew Research Center survey that comes as some businesses experiment with becoming cashless establishments .
In a Pew Research Center survey conducted the last week of April , 18 % said they had followed the chemical-weapons story `` very closely , '' up from 13 % who said they were following the Syrian conflict very closely a month earlier . A quarter of respondents in the latest survey said they were following the story `` fairly closely , '' compared with 22 % a month previous .
Until recently , the U.S. government was paying historically low rates on its debt , largely because of the Federal Reserve 's efforts to keep interest rates low during and after the Great Recession . But interest rates on federal debt have begun rising again . In fiscal 2018 , the average interest rate on the public debt was 2.492 % , compared with 2.232 % in fiscal 2016 , according to the Treasury Department . In June , the average interest rate had risen to 2.567 % .
Slightly fewer than half of Americans ( 47 % ) believe that conducting basic scientific research to increase knowledge and understanding of space should be a top priority , with 40 % saying such research is an important but lower priority . Some 41 % say developing technologies that could be adapted for uses other than space exploration should be a top priority , and 44 % characterize it as an important but lower priority for NASA . And 38 % believe NASA should make it a top priority to conduct scientific research on how space travel affects human health , while 41 % see it as an important but lower priority .
The new Census Bureau report also detailed `` some other race '' responses by Hispanic origin groups . About 43.4 % of Guatemalan origin Hispanics selected the category , as did 42.9 % of Salvadorans and 37.7 % of Hondurans , the three highest shares among Hispanic origin groups . By contrast , just 5.2 % of Cubans , 8.1 % of Argentineans and 8.9 % of Uruguayans selected `` some other race . ''
In the U.S. , Putin and Russia are not popular among backers of either major political party . That said , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents currently have almost twice as much confidence in Putin to do the right thing as Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 28 % vs. 15 % ) . A similar divide exists with respect to views of Russia : 27 % of Republicans express favorable views of Russia , compared with 16 % of Democrats .
Among Democrats , concerns about catching and spreading the virus are relatively unchanged since April . About six-in-ten Democrats ( 64 % ) continue to say they are very or somewhat concerned that they will require hospitalization due to the virus , while about three-quarters ( 77 % ) are very or somewhat concerned about unknowingly spreading it . Today , clear majorities of black ( 63 % ) and Hispanic ( 73 % ) adults say they are very or somewhat concerned about getting COVID-19 and requiring hospitalization , which is little different than the shares saying this in April . By comparison , 43 % of white adults now say this ( down from 51 % in April ) . There is a similar pattern in levels of concern about unknowingly spreading the coronavirus . Today , 79 % of Hispanic adults and 72 % of black adults say they are at least somewhat concerned they might unknowingly spread the coronavirus , while 56 % of white adults say this . The share of white adults saying this has dropped since April , while concerns among blacks and Hispanics are as high or higher than they were two months ago .
The Japanese public is largely divided over the quality of democracy at home : 50 % say they are satisfied with the way democracy is working in their country , while 47 % are dissatisfied , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of Japanese public opinion . Trust in government is more widespread – a 57 % majority expresses confidence in the national government to act in the country 's best interests , but only 6 % of Japanese have a lot of trust in the national leadership .
While Americans believe China has assumed the leading position in the global economy , they see the military balance of power quite differently . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) think the U.S. is the world 's leading military power . Just 16 % say China has the top military , while 5 % name Russia and 3 % the EU .
One-in-seven never-married adults say they do n't want to get married Among adults who have never been married , 58 % say they would like to get married someday and 27 % are not sure if they want to get married . Still , 14 % say they do not want to get married , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in August among 4,971 U.S. adults .
Positive views of the job situation have edged up , but most Americans still say jobs are hard to find . When it comes to job opportunities , 57 % say that jobs are difficult to find in their community , while 36 % say that there are plenty of jobs available , according to our recent survey . Views of job availability have edged higher over the past several years as the unemployment rate has declined . The percentage saying that there are plenty of jobs available in their community has not been higher since November 2007 , before the start of the Great Recession . People under 50 are more likely than people over that age to say there are plenty of jobs available , as are people with higher education and income .
This chart shows the proportion of workers who are unauthorized migrants in a selection among the CPS ' 52 `` detailed industry groups '' . The major industries shown are those where the proportion of unauthorized migrants exceeds the proportion in the workforce ( 4.3 % ) . There are fewer detailed industries with high concentrations and significant numbers of unauthorized workers than detailed occupations . The range of credential and educational requirements is generally broader for industries than for occupations . Nonetheless , there are some industries with very high concentration of unauthorized workers . For example , 26 % of workers in the landscaping services industry are unauthorized ; similarly , about 1 in 5 workers in meat/poultry packing is unauthorized . The following industries have more than twice the representation of unauthorized workers than the whole labor force .
Less than half ( 47 % ) of Cuban registered voters nationwide now say they identify with or lean toward the Republican Party—down from the 64 % who said the same about the GOP a decade ago , according to 2013 survey data . Meanwhile , the share of Cubans who identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party has doubled from 22 % to 44 % over the same time period , according to the survey of Hispanics .
Comparable proportions of Democrats who are college graduates ( 88 % ) and those with less education ( 82 % ) say that there is solid evidence that the earth is getting warmer . Among Democrats , higher education is associated with the belief that global warming is mostly caused by human activity . Fully 75 % of Democrats with college degrees say that the earth is warming and that this is caused by human activity . Just 52 % of Democrats with less education express this view . Among Republicans , similar percentages of college graduates and those with less education say there is solid evidence of global warming ( 46 % and 51 % , respectively ) . Yet for Republicans , unlike Democrats , higher education is associated with greater skepticism that human activity is causing global warming . Only 19 % of Republican college graduates say that there is solid evidence that the earth is warming and it is caused by human activity , while 31 % of Republicans with less education say the same .
Jehovah 's Witnesses , who make up just less than 1 % of U.S. adults , are known for their door-to-door proselytism . But members of this denomination , which has its origins in 19th-century America , are also unique in many other ways . Here are a few facts about Jehovah 's Witnesses in the United States today , based on Pew Research Center 's Religious Landscape Study : Jehovah 's Witnesses are among the most racially and ethnically diverse religious groups in America . No more than four-in-ten members of the group belong to any one racial and ethnic background : 36 % are white , 32 % are Hispanic , 27 % are black and 6 % are another race or mixed race .
There is no consensus on whether there should be a federal government mandate for paid family and medical leave or on the best policy approach for dealing with paid leave . About half of Americans ( 51 % ) say the federal government should require employers to provide paid leave , while a similar share ( 48 % ) says that employers should be able to decide for themselves .
Non-Hispanic whites will remain the largest racial or ethnic group in the overall population but will become less than a majority , the projections show . Currently 62 % of the population , they will make up 46 % of it in 2065 . Hispanics will be 24 % of the population ( 18 % now ) , Asians will be 14 % ( 6 % now ) and blacks will be 13 % ( 12 % now ) .
About seven-in-ten American adults ( 69 % ) now report they use some kind of social media platform ( not including YouTube ) – a nearly fourteenfold increase since Pew Research Center first started asking about the phenomenon . The growth has come across all demographic groups and includes 37 % of those ages 65 and older .
And perhaps Americans have come to recognize the consequences of its own inward point of view . A recent Pew Research Center/Council on Foreign Relations survey found the percentage of Americans believing that the U.S. is playing a less important and powerful role in the world climbing from 20 % in 2004 to 53 % in 2013 .
The percentage of Americans who say the U.S. plays a more important and powerful role as a world leader than it did 10 years ago has fallen to a 40-year low of just 17 % .
By definition , the most active tweeters produce a large amount of content relative to the rest of the Twitter population . But the scope of these differences is profound . The median Twitter user posts just two times a month , but the most prolific 10 % of Twitter users in terms of tweet volume produce a median of 138 tweets monthly . In fact , this analysis estimates that the top 10 % of tweeters are responsible for 80 % of the tweets created by all U.S. adults on Twitter .
Pew Research Center has been tracking Americans ' internet behavior for years , all the while focusing on personal use from any location . While our approach has evolved over time , the current measurement consists of two questions : `` Do you use the internet or email , at least occasionally ? '' and `` Do you access the internet on a cellphone , tablet or other mobile handheld device , at least occasionally ? '' In a January 2018 phone survey , 89 % of U.S. adults said `` yes '' to at least one of these questions .
In 2016 , men made up only 39 % of Hillary Clinton 's voters . This share grew to 45 % for Democratic House candidates in 2018 . But other than a slight increase in the share of Republican voters ages 65 and older , there was little change in the respective age profiles of the two parties ' voters . Nearly half of those who voted for Democratic candidates were under 50 years of age , compared with almost a third ( 32 % ) of Republican voters .
Religion is more important to people in the former West than those in the former East . Six-in-ten adults in former West Germany say religion is very or somewhat important in their lives , whereas an identical share of those in former East Germany say religion is not too or not at all important . This includes 45 % of those in the former East who say religion is not at all important in their lives .
The belief that the GOP is divided spans all groups of Republican voters . However , those who supported Donald Trump in the GOP primaries ( 61 % ) are less likely to view the party as divided than voters who backed other Republican candidates ( 76 % ) .
There is no consensus on the future of global cooperation . Americans are about evenly split in their expectations on the direction of international cooperation after the outbreak , with 35 % expecting countries to increase their focus on cooperation after the outbreak , 29 % expecting more focus on countries ' own national interest and 34 % expecting no change in the extent to which countries cooperate with one another .
U.S. adults ages 60 and older also are more likely than their counterparts around the world to live as a couple without young children at home . Almost half of Americans in this age group ( 46 % ) share a home with only one spouse or partner , compared with three-in-ten globally ( 31 % ) . Older adults in sub-Saharan Africa ( 9 % ) are especially unlikely to live in this arrangement .
U.S. newspaper circulation has fallen to its lowest level since at least 1940 , the earliest year with available data . Total daily newspaper circulation – print and digital combined – was an estimated 28.6 million for weekday and 30.8 million for Sunday in 2018 . Those numbers were down 8 % and 9 % , respectively , from the previous year and are now below their lowest recorded levels ( though weekday circulation first passed this threshold in 2013 ) .
Most of the world has greater confidence in Obama than in Putin to do the right thing in world affairs by better than two-to-one ( a median of 56 % to 23 % ) , according to a 44 nation poll by the Pew Research Center , conducted this year after the winter Olympics in Russia but before the recent conflict over responsibility for the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 , which the U.S. has blamed on pro-Russian separatists supplied with weapons by the Russian military . An earlier 21 country survey in 2012 found a similar two-to-one margin of favorability for the U.S. president . Putin has never been as well-known as Obama , nor generally as well liked . Majorities or pluralities in only six of the 44 countries surveyed say they have confidence in Putin to do the right thing in world affairs . Just 16 % of Americans say they have a great deal or some confidence in the Russian leader . And the median confidence level in seven European Union nations is 18 % . Only 20 % of Japanese see his conduct of foreign policy favorably .
Those ages 18 to 29 stand out from their elders on virtually every aspect of how mobile activities fit into their social lives , how they act with their phones and their views about the appropriateness of using phones in public and social settings . Younger adults are more engaged with their devices and permissive in their attitudes about when it is OK to use a mobile phone . Of course , older adults , especially senior citizens , are generally less likely than younger adults to own a mobile phone in the first place and are also less likely to use their phone for activities other than voice calls . This might be a factor in some of these differences .
The share of the U.S. population that is Hispanic has been steadily rising over the past half century . In 2015 , Hispanics made up 17.6 % of the total U.S. population , up from 3.5 % in 1960 . According to the latest Pew Research Center projections , the Hispanic share of the U.S. population is expected to reach 24 % by 2065 .
In views of U.S. priorities for the Middle East , fully 81 % say that preventing the spread of terrorism should be a very important goal of U.S. policy . Large majorities also say that preventing attacks on civilians and keeping oil prices low should be very important goals ( 67 % each ) .
In one of the survey 's most striking findings , majorities in Indonesia , Turkey , Egypt , and Jordan say that they do not believe groups of Arabs carried out the Sept. 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks . The percentage of Turks expressing disbelief that Arabs carried out the 9/11 attacks has increased from 43 % in a 2002 Gallup survey to 59 % currently . And this attitude is not limited to Muslims in predominantly Muslim countries – 56 % of British Muslims say they do not believe Arabs carried out the terror attacks against the U.S. , compared with just 17 % who do .
Only among the Silent generation did presidents in office before Kennedy receive a significant number of mentions . But even among this older group , Clinton and Reagan were essentially tied for the top positions . Reagan was cited by 36 % and Clinton by 35 % as best or second-best . Kennedy was mentioned by 29 % , Dwight D. Eisenhower by 17 % , and Harry S Truman and Franklin D. Roosevelt were named by 11 % and 12 % , respectively . Read more
This chart shows the proportion of workers who are unauthorized migrants in a selection among the CPS ' 27 `` detailed occupation groups '' . The major occupations shown are those where the proportion of unauthorized migrants exceeds the proportion in the workforce ( 4.3 % ) .
Explicitly anti-social behavior while in public is considerably less common . Some 23 % of cellphone owners say that when they are in public spaces they use their phone to avoid interacting with others who are nearby at least on occasion . Of course , those around the cellphone user may still experience various uses of cellphones as anti-social , even if that was not the intention of the user . Along with being more tolerant than their elders about cellphone use in public , younger adults also tend to use their phones for a wider range of purposes while out and about in public . For instance , 52 % of cellphone owners ages 18 to 29 say that they frequently use their phone to look up information about where they are going while out in public , compared with 9 % of cell users 65 and older who do this frequently . Similarly , 49 % of younger cell users say they frequently use their phone to coordinate getting together with others while they are out and about , compared with just 12 % of seniors .
Almost half ( 47 % ) of the public said military spending should be kept about the same , according to a survey conducted Oct. 30-Nov. 6 , 2013 . An additional 23 % said it should be increased while 28 % favored reductions . The findings reflect roughly the same sentiment found in a survey conducted a year ago . Almost equal numbers of Republicans ( 50 % ) and Democrats ( 47 % ) favored keeping military spending the same , but they differed sharply when it came to those who wanted to see increases or decreases . Nearly four-in-ten Democrats ( 39 % ) would cut the Pentagon budget compared with only 10 % of Republicans , while 37 % of Republicans would increase defense spending compared with 12 % of Democrats .
There is a significant ideological divide on this question among Democrats . Three-quarters of liberal Democrats and Democratic leaners say the pre-emptive use of military force can rarely or never be justified . By contrast , conservative and moderate Democrats and Democratic leaners are more evenly divided : 52 % say it can rarely or never be justified , while 46 % say it can sometimes or often be justified . There are modest differences on this question across many demographic groups , including age and gender . However , when it comes to levels of educational attainment , postgraduates express distinct views . Overall , 62 % of postgraduates say that using military force against countries that may seriously threaten but have not attacked the U.S. can rarely or never be justified ; fewer ( 37 % ) say it can sometimes or often be justified . By contrast , those with lower levels of education are more likely to say pre-emptive force can sometimes or often be justified : About half of those with a college degree or less education say this .
Support for allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally also has steadily risen across racial and ethnic groups . Six-in-ten or more whites ( 64 % ) and Hispanics ( 60 % ) say they favor allowing same-sex couples to be married legally . In 2007 , just 38 % of whites and 37 % of Hispanics supported same-sex marriage .
A new Pew Research Center survey examines this question through the lens of American public opinion and across a range of scientific topics . We found that a majority of Americans ( 59 % ) say that science is often in conflict with religion , with only 38 % saying the two areas are mostly compatible . Here are five key findings from the report : The least religiously observant Americans are most likely to perceive conflict between religion and science . Some 73 % of adults who seldom or never attend religious services say science and religion are often in conflict , while half of adults who attend religious services at least weekly say the same .
Most people ( 58 % ) express little or no concern about becoming exposed to Ebola , though that is down from 67 % in early October . And majorities have at least a fair amount of confidence in both the federal government and U.S. hospitals to deal with the disease .
Overall , 37 % of Americans cite the health care reform debate as the single news story they followed most closely this past week , while 18 % cite news about the economy . These figures are largely unchanged from the previous week . Continuing reports about Tiger Woods remains a major story for some Americans . Roughly one-in-seven Americans ( 14 % ) say they followed news about Tiger Woods more closely than any other story . The international forum on climate change in Copenhagen attracted less focus – just 5 % say that was their top news story this past week .
Around two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say China has done a bad job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak . Around three-quarters ( 78 % ) place a great deal or fair amount of the blame for the global spread of the coronavirus on the Chinese government 's initial handling of the COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan .
In the predominantly Muslim countries surveyed , anger toward the United States remains pervasive , although the level of hatred has eased somewhat and support for the war on terrorism has inched up . Osama bin Laden , however , is viewed favorably by large percentages in Pakistan ( 65 % ) , Jordan ( 55 % ) and Morocco ( 45 % ) . Even in Turkey , where bin Laden is highly unpopular , as many as 31 % say that suicide attacks against Americans and other Westerners in Iraq are justifiable . Majorities in all four Muslim nations surveyed doubt the sincerity of the war on terrorism . Instead , most say it is an effort to control Mideast oil and to dominate the world .
The public 's interest in developments in Egypt remained high last week as the media focused increasingly on domestic debates over how to deal with the fiscal troubles facing many states and how to bring down the federal deficit . About a third of the public ( 32 % ) says they followed news about the situation in Egypt more closely than any other news story last week . That is down from 48 % one week earlier , but still ranks – by a wide margin – as the public 's top story for the week , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Feb. 17 - 20 among 1,001 adults . And , as unrest grew in nations like Libya and Bahrain , another 3 % say they followed news about anti-government protests elsewhere in the region most closely . But the public also kept a close watch on several economic story lines . Fully 14 % say news about the economy was their top story of the week . Another 14 % say they most closely followed news about state and local budget problems and 8 % say they followed discussions in Washington about how to address the federal budget deficit this closely . Together , the economic themes topped coverage last week , making up a total of 35 % of the newshole examined by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Coverage of state budget problems , most notably the noisy confrontations in Wisconsin over the governor 's push to curtail collective bargaining rights for public employees , accounted for 16 % , while the debate in Washington over the federal budget accounted for 14 % . More general news about the economy totaled 5 % of coverage .
News about the economy topped the public 's news interest last week , but Americans also showed strong interest in Hurricane Earl and news about the withdrawal of U.S. combat troops from Iraq . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about Earl more closely than other top news as the hurricane threatened much of the east coast . Nearly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say they followed news about Earl very closely . According to PEJ , the media devoted 13 % of coverage to the hurricane , which ultimately weakened to a tropical storm . Another 17 % say they followed news about Iraq and the combat troop withdrawal most closely ; 36 % say they followed this news very closely . News about the official end of combat operations in Iraq accounted for 8 % of coverage .
In a busy news week , the public continued to name the health care debate as its top story . Three-in-ten say they followed news about health care more closely than any other story , and 40 % say they paid very close attention to the reform debate . Interest was high despite the fact that coverage was lower than it had been in recent weeks . Some 11 % of the newshole was devoted to the debate over health care reform , according to PEJ , down from 28 % during the previous week . The public also maintained interest in news about the U.S. economy . Fully 45 % followed economic news very closely , while 17 % say this was the story they followed more closely than any other . Coverage of the economy equaled that of the health care debate , filling 11 % of the newshole . The media 's top story of the week was far-and-away the death of Ted Kennedy : the 27 % of newshole devoted to this story far outpaced coverage of the economy and health care . But the death of the last Kennedy brother did not top the public 's news agenda . About three-in-ten ( 28 % ) followed news about Ted Kennedy 's death very closely and 17 % named it their top story of the week . Interest was significantly higher among Democrats ( 38 % very closely ) than among Republicans ( 21 % very closely ) . The discovery of Jaycee Dugard , a 29-year-old woman who had been kidnapped and held hostage in a California town since she was 11 , attracted the very close attention of 27 % of the public ; 14 % followed news about the story more closely than any other . Women under age 50 were especially likely to say they followed the story more closely than any other ( 23 % did so ) .
In the past , police officers and the general public have tended to view fatal encounters between black people and police very differently . In a 2016 survey of nearly 8,000 policemen and women from departments with at least 100 officers , two-thirds said most such encounters are isolated incidents and not signs of broader problems between police and the black community . In a companion survey of more than 4,500 U.S. adults , 60 % of the public called such incidents signs of broader problems between police and black people . But the views given by police themselves were sharply differentiated by race : A majority of black officers ( 57 % ) said that such incidents were evidence of a broader problem , but only 27 % of white officers and 26 % of Hispanic officers said so .
About half of American adults ( 49 % ) `` ever play video games on a computer , TV , game console , or portable device like a cellphone , '' and 10 % consider themselves to be `` gamers . ''
Few transatlantic experts surveyed ( 4 % ) think their country would benefit from having a strong leader who makes decisions without interference from parliament or courts . Publics across Western Europe and North America are largely similar to the experts in their view that such an approach to government would be inappropriate ; a median of 14 % say rule by a strong leader would be good for their country . However , public support varies markedly across countries , ranging from a high of 29 % of Italians who think an unchecked executive is very or somewhat good to a low of 6 % in Germany . Across most of the countries surveyed , those with more education are more opposed to rule by strong leaders . Only 2 % of foreign policy experts think military rule would be appropriate for governing their countries . Publics across Western Europe and North America roughly mirror experts , with a median of 11 % saying they think a military government would be a good thing . Again , though , support varies across countries . Germany and Sweden are the least positive ( 4 % each ) , while Americans , the French and Italians are the most ( 17 % each ) . As with opposition to a strong leader , those with more education tend to be more opposed to rule by the military across most of the countries surveyed .
The U.S. received 84,995 refugees in fiscal year 2016 , effectively meeting the 85,000 ceiling set by the Obama administration at the beginning of the year . The Democratic Republic of the Congo ( 16,370 ) , Syria ( 12,587 ) and Burma ( Myanmar ) ( 12,347 ) were the top origin countries of refugees in 2016 . Together , refugees from these three nations represented nearly half ( 49 % ) of all refugees admitted to the U.S. over the past year .
The Bush administration 's strategies for repairing the tattered U.S. image in the Middle East — through the promotion of democracy and by increasing public diplomacy in the region — are viewed skeptically by opinion leaders . No more than a third in any group believe that Bush 's push for democracy in the region will succeed ; most believe it is a good idea , but one that will fail . Security specialists and foreign affairs experts , in particular , express little confidence that public diplomacy can do much to help America 's image in the region , though that effort is more highly regarded by religious leaders , state and local government officials and military leaders .
Majorities in all Western European countries surveyed in 2008 except Spain said they were very or fairly concerned that their country had become too dependent on Russia for its energy resources : Roughly six-in-ten or more among British ( 67 % ) , German ( 62 % ) and French ( 58 % ) publics expressed concern ; the Spanish public was evenly split on this issue ( 46 % concerned , 47 % not concerned ) . Concern grew a bit between 2007 and 2008 in several Western European publics ; slightly more were worried in 2008 in Germany ( 62 % ) , France ( 58 % ) , and Spain ( 46 % ) than in 2007 ( Germany 58 % , France 53 % , Spain 38 % ) . British views have remained unchanged .
Again , there are differences in the views of whites and minorities on these questions . While 75 % of Hispanics and 70 % of blacks would like training on how to use online resources to find trustworthy information , the same is true for 55 % of whites . Three-quarters of Hispanics and 66 % of blacks would like training on using computers , smartphones and the internet , compared with 48 % of whites .
Few in the countries surveyed have confidence in the leader of either the U.S. or China , and many are critical of how both countries have handled the coronavirus outbreak . On most measures included in the survey , people are even more critical of the U.S. than of China – though more still have favorable opinions of the U.S . Most people rate China more positively than the U.S. in its handling of the coronavirus pandemic . Across the 14 countries surveyed , few praise China 's response to COVID-19 , with a median of 37 % saying it has done a good job dealing with the outbreak . But , in all countries except Japan and the U.S. itself , people are much more complimentary of China 's response than that of the U.S . In Japan , fewer than one-in-five praise either country . The gap is largest in Italy , where 51 % say China has done a good job compared with 18 % who say the same of the U.S. , a difference of 33 percentage points . Gaps of around 30 points exist across most of the Western European countries surveyed .
Other issues are seen as more important by backers of one of the candidates : Trump supporters are more likely than Clinton supporters to say immigration is very important to their vote ( 79 % vs. 65 % ) , though the importance of this issue across-the-board is substantially higher today than it was in 2008 or 2012 . Conversely , though nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) Clinton supporters view the treatment of racial and ethnic minorities as a very important issue to their vote , only 42 % of Trump backers say the same . And while more than half of Clinton supporters ( 54 % ) say the treatment of gay , lesbian and transgender people is very important , just a quarter of Trump supporters agree . Clinton is viewed as better able than Trump to handle several issues , including dealing with race relations ( 66 % to 26 % over Trump ) , better reflecting people 's views on abortion , making wise decisions on foreign policy , dealing with health care and selecting Supreme Court justices . Yet voters are divided over which candidate can better handle the economy and terrorism – the two issues that rank at the top of voters ' agenda . Trump has a wide edge over Clinton as being better able to reduce the influence of lobbyists and special interests in Washington ( 50 % to 30 % ) .
A growing share of Catholics see the pope as being too liberal ( 34 % ) as well as naïve ( 24 % ) , up from 19 % and 15 % , respectively , in 2015 . This is especially true among Catholics who are Republican or who lean Republican ; they are much more likely to see Francis as being too liberal than Democrats or those who lean Democratic ( 55 % vs. 19 % ) . A partisan gap also exists among Catholics on views about whether the pope is naïve ( 32 % among Republicans vs. 18 % among Democrats ) .
In 1995 only about 1 in 10 American adults had access to the internet . In 2000 , it was up to nearly half of adults . Now , about 75 % of adults and 95 % teenagers in the U.S. have internet access .
With a higher U.S.-born share comes a larger share who are proficient in English . About three-quarters of Hispanic Millennials are proficient English speakers – that is , they either speak only English at home ( 28 % ) or speak a language other than English at home , but speak English `` very well '' ( 48 % ) . Some 19 % of Hispanic Millennials speak English less than very well and just 5 % do not speak English at all .
Hispanic millennials will account for nearly half ( 44 % ) of the record 27.3 million Hispanic eligible voters projected for 2016—a share greater than any other racial or ethnic group of voters , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . Youth is a bigger defining characteristic of Hispanic eligible voters than for any other group . In 2016 , a projected 11.9 million Hispanic millennials will be eligible to vote , fewer in number than the 42.2 million white millennials who are eligible to vote . But millennials make up a larger share of Hispanic eligible voters than they do among white eligible voters—44 % versus 27 % . Hispanic millennial eligible voters outnumber those among Asian ( 2.9 million ) and black ( 9.9 million ) eligible voters . Millennials also make up a higher share of Hispanic eligible voters than of Asian or black eligible voters—44 % versus 30 % and 35 % , respectively .
The number of physical assaults against Muslims in the United States reached 9/11-era levels last year , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of new hate crimes statistics from the FBI . There were 91 reported aggravated or simple assaults motivated by anti-Muslim bias in 2015 , just two shy of the 93 reported in 2001 . Separately , the number of anti-Muslim intimidation crimes – defined as threatening bodily harm — also rose in 2015 , with 120 reported to the FBI . Again , this was the most anti-Muslim intimidation crimes reported in any year since 2001 , when there were 296 .
The amount of time that Americans ages 60 and older spend on their TVs , computers , tablets or other electronic devices has risen almost half an hour per day over the past decade , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data , even as screen time among younger people has more or less held steady . Those 60 and older – a group increasingly populated by aging Baby Boomers – now spend more than half of their daily leisure time , four hours and 16 minutes , in front of screens , mostly watching TV or videos . Screen time has increased for those in their 60s , 70s , 80s and beyond , and the rise is apparent across genders and education levels . Meanwhile , the time that these older adults spend on other recreational activities , such as reading or socializing , has ticked down slightly .
The share of Americans who favor legalizing the use of marijuana continues to increase . Today , 57 % of U.S. adults say the use of marijuana should be made legal , while 37 % say it should be illegal . A decade ago , opinion on legalizing marijuana was nearly the reverse – just 32 % favored legalization , while 60 % were opposed .
Yet , despite her low approval ratings , the president is viewed more favorably than her main challengers in the October election , who remain less well known . Roughly half ( 51 % ) have a favorable opinion of Rousseff , who represents the Workers ' Party ( PT ) , about double the share that say the same about Aécio Neves ( 27 % ) , the candidate of the Brazilian Social Democracy Party ( PSDB ) , or Eduardo Campos ( 24 % ) of the Brazilian Socialist Party ( PSB ) . All three candidates have unfavorable ratings hovering around the 50 % mark . Roughly one-in-four do not offer an opinion of Rousseff 's challengers .
The sharp decline in U.S. births after the onset of the Great Recession—especially among Hispanics—has slowed the nation 's transition to a majority-minority youth population , according to new Census Bureau data released today . The bureau 's population estimates for July 1 , 2013 , show that young Americans are far more likely than older ones to be racial or ethnic minorities , defined as anyone who is not a single-race non-Hispanic white . Among Americans younger than five , half were minorities in 2013 . Among those ages 80 and older , more than 80 % were non-Hispanic white .
Following a disappointing jobs report on April 5 , the public continues to say they are hearing a mix of both good and bad news about the economy . About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) say they are hearing mixed economic news compared with 32 % who say they are hearing mostly bad news and 8 % who say they are hearing mostly good news . Opinions about the tone of economic news have changed little since the start of the year .
The median duration of unemployment ticked up to 17.1 weeks last month , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics . That means that last month , more than half of all 10.3 million Americans officially considered unemployed had been out of work for more than 17.1 weeks , and half for less . Median duration of unemployment , in weeks.Source : Bureau of Labor Statistics
As the eight years of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva 's presidency draw to a close , Brazilians offer largely positive assessments of where their country stands . At a time when global publics are mostly glum about the way things are going in their countries , half of Brazilians say they are satisfied with national conditions , and 62 % say their nation 's economy is in good shape . Of the 21 other publics included in the 2010 Pew Global Attitudes survey , only the Chinese are more upbeat about their country 's overall direction and economic conditions . A solid majority of Brazilians believe the outgoing president and the national government are having a good influence on the country , and most give the government good ratings for its handling of the economy . Moreover , the Bolsa Família program , Lula 's signature initiative , which provides cash incentives to the country 's poorest families for keeping their children in school and getting them vaccinated , is popular with Brazilians among all demographic groups .
A substantial share of adults in Central and Eastern Europe hold traditional views of the role of women and the family , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of 18 nations in the region . This is especially true in the 10 countries surveyed with Orthodox Christian majorities . For instance , majorities of respondents in all 10 of these Orthodox countries agree with the statement , `` Women have a responsibility to society to bear children , '' including at least three-quarters in Armenia ( 82 % ) , Romania ( 81 % ) and Bulgaria ( 77 % ) and about six-in-ten in Russia and Belarus ( 59 % each ) . Generally , smaller shares in the eight Catholic-majority , religiously mixed or majority-unaffiliated countries surveyed ( Bosnia and Hungary are exceptions ) take this position .
While some of the recommendations of the Verma Committee were implemented in March 2013 , the public remains dissatisfied with the current laws and the police 's handling of rape cases , with roughly three-in-four saying that the current criminal code for dealing with such cases is too lax . Fewer than one-in-ten Indians rate the current laws as `` about right '' in dealing with cases of rape ( 7 % ) . And only 6 % of the public says that the police investigate these cases adequately . Meanwhile , 18 % think that laws on rape are too tough , while 15 % hold this view about law enforcement .
Roughly half ( 52 % ) of the public say they very closely followed news about the massive earthquake off the northeast coast of Japan and the tsunami that followed , according to the latest News Interest Index survey , conducted March 10 - 13 among 1,001 adults . The Japan disaster was by far the top story of the week – 46 % say this was the news they followed most closely last week ; no other story came close . Still , the number who say they followed the Japanese catastrophe very closely is somewhat less than the 60 % that said they followed news that closely about the earthquake that devastated Haiti in January 2010 . In January 2005 , 58 % said they very closely followed news about the major earthquake and tsunami that struck Indonesia , Sri Lanka and other south Asian nations . Later that year , more Americans paid very close attention to a disaster in this country – Hurricane Katrina – the week that hurricane hit the Gulf Coast ( 70 % very closely ) .
About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) of those surveyed said they worried a lot or a little about losing their job because of the economy , with 32 % saying they worried a lot . The joint Post-Miller Center poll said this figure surpassed the level of concern about losing jobs registered in more than a dozen surveys dating to the 1970s . The poll was conducted in September . The survey noted that 54 % of workers earning $ 35,000 or less worried a lot about losing their jobs compared to 37 % who had that concern in 1992 .
African Americans and Latinos are also much more likely than whites to say it is `` very important '' for government agencies to post information and alerts on sites such as Facebook and Twitter . Based on these users ' expressed attitudes , these tools may offer the ability for government agencies to reach underserved populations in a way that is not currently occurring with other online offerings .
Solid Liberals make up a third of all Democrats and Democratic leaners – but close to half ( 48 % ) of politically engaged Democrats . That is about the same proportion as the other Democratic-leaning groups combined .
The top public college for OPT participants is City University of New York 's Bernard M. Baruch College ( 18,500 ) . Other public schools that graduated significant numbers of OPT enrollees include University of Michigan at Ann Arbor ( 13,700 ) , University of California , Los Angeles ( 13,600 ) , and University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign ( 13,600 ) . The New York-Newark-Jersey City metro area had the largest cumulative population of OPT participants ( 218,400 ) .16 That was followed by the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim ( 103,600 ) and Boston-Cambridge-Newton metro areas ( 73,000 ) . New York 's dominance can be explained in part by its ability to retain foreign students graduating from local colleges : 85 % of foreign students graduating from New York-area schools stayed in the metro region to work under OPT between 2004 and 2016 . In the Los Angeles and Boston areas , the shares were 78 % and 72 % , respectively . The Seattle ( 84 % ) and Honolulu areas ( 83 % ) actually outperformed Los Angeles and Boston in terms of the share of local foreign students retained through OPT .
There are big gaps as well in perceptions about how women are treated in the workplace and how much attention is paid to increasing gender diversity . Most women who work in majority-female workplaces say women are usually treated fairly where they work when it comes to recruitment and hiring ( 79 % ) and in opportunities for promotion and advancement ( 70 % ) . Smaller shares , but still majorities , of women who say their workplace is balanced in terms of gender say women are treated fairly in these areas . Women who work in majority-male workplaces feel much differently : 48 % say women are treated fairly where they work when it comes to recruitment and hiring , and even fewer ( 38 % ) say women are treated fairly in promotions and advancement . Women who work mainly with men are also less likely than other female workers to say their workplace pays the right amount of attention to increasing gender diversity . Only 49 % say this , compared with 78 % of women who say there is an even gender mix where they work and 71 % who work in female-dominated workplaces .
The decrease in support for the decision to go to war has occurred despite a dramatically improved perception of how the effort in Iraq is going . In Pew 's latest survey , as many Americans say the military situation in Iraq is going well as say it is not going well ( 48 % each ) . In February 2007 , fully two-thirds ( 67 % ) said the war in Iraq was not going well – the largest percentage expressing this view since the war began . The current division on this question is comparable to public perceptions through most of the second and third years of the conflict , while evaluations turned decidedly negative during the fourth year .
While the parties ' most prominent economic policy goals may differ , majorities of both Five Star ( 82 % ) and League supporters ( 74 % ) agree that it is the government 's responsibility to ensure a decent standard of living for all . Moreover , about two-thirds of both parties ' supporters strongly feel the government should guarantee everyone a decent standard of living , which is substantially higher than the 51 % who say this among the rest of the Italian public .
In all , including refugees from countries with no travel restrictions , 6,095 refugees entered the U.S. during Trump 's first month in office ( Jan. 21 to Feb. 17 ) , a period that includes the week before he issued the travel order . Among these refugees , a total of 2,778 were Muslims ( 46 % ) and 2,610 are Christians ( 43 % ) .
Defenders of the U.S. health care system have long claimed that the American approach delivers greater access to care when a person is sick . However , the survey suggests access is a relative concept . Fully 57 % of elderly Americans said they can get a same-day or next-day appointment to see a medical professional when they are ill. That is certainly more than those who can claim such timely access in Canada ( 45 % ) , which is the oft-cited comparison made by critics of delays in government funded health care in the U.S .
Americans with a postgraduate education are somewhat more likely than those with less education to applaud the international organization 's handling of the outbreak , though the differences are muted . Younger Americans also approve of the WHO 's performance more than older Americans : 52 % of adults under age 30 say it has done excellent or good job , compared with just 39 % of those 65 and older .
Young adults continue to lead the adoption curve in online video viewing . Nine in ten internet users ages 18 - 29 use video sharing sites , up from 72 % one year ago . On a typical day in 2009 , 36 % of young adult internet users watched video on these sites , compared with just 30 % in 2008 . Online adults ages 30 - 49 also showed big gains over the past year ; 67 % now use video sharing sites , up from 57 % in 2008 . Online video viewing is still far from being the norm among internet users ages 50 and older , however , this segment of the internet audience continues to grow each year . Among internet users ages 50 - 64 , 41 % now say they watch video on sites like YouTube , which is up from 34 % in 2008 . Likewise , 27 % of wired seniors ages 65 and older now access video on these sites , compared with just 19 % who were doing so at this time last year .
In other news last week , 22 % of Americans followed news about the search for the killer of a pregnant Marine , while 16 % listed this as the story they were following more closely than any other . Roughly three-in-ten followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely , but only 7 % listed this as their top story of the week . The national news media devoted a mere 1 % of its overall coverage to the Iraq war last week . Bush 's trip to the Middle East drew modest public interest : 17 % followed this story very closely and 3 % listed it as their most closely followed story of the week .
Similarly , Americans who work in the government , nonprofit or education sectors are a bit more skeptical about the future of workforce automation than are Americans who work for a large corporation , medium-sized company or small business . Just 7 % of Americans who work in the government , education or nonprofit sectors expect that robots and computers will definitely take over most human employment in the next 50 years , while 13 % of those who work for a large corporation or small business or medium-sized company are certain that this will occur .
The survey finds that majorities of both whites and blacks say Baltimore City State 's Attorney Marilyn Mosby made the right decision in bringing criminal charges against some Baltimore police officers , including a charge of second-degree murder against one of the officers . Overall , 65 % say the decision by the state 's attorney to charge the officers was right , while 16 % see it as the wrong decision ; 18 % do not offer an opinion . The question was asked May 1 - 3 among 798 adults . ( Mosby announced the charges on May 1 . ) Nearly eight-in-ten blacks ( 78 % ) and 60 % of whites say the decision to bring charges was right . There are sharp partisan differences in these views : 75 % of Democrats , 71 % of independents and 45 % of Republicans express positive views of the decision to charge the six officers .
Despite some of these unique challenges facing the older adult population when it comes to technology , most seniors who become internet users make visiting the digital world a regular occurrence . Among older adults who use the internet , 71 % go online every day or almost every day , and an additional 11 % go online three to five times per week .
Women make up 25.5 % of state senate seats and 29.7 % of state house or assembly seats . Thirteen women serve in one of the top leadership posts in state senates , and an additional six are speakers of state houses . In 2019 , Nevada became the first state with a majority-women state legislature at 50.8 % . West Virginia has the smallest share , at 14.2 % . The first women to serve in a state legislature were three Republicans elected to the Colorado House of Representatives in 1984 .
Anxiety about the growing strength of China 's military is nearly universal in Japan . That concern is shared with others among China 's neighbors – large majorities in both Russia and India see this as a threatening trend . The Chinese , however , have a very different view : 95 % say their rising military might is a good thing .
There is no consensus as to whether in the future Turkey should look to Europe ( 17 % ) or to the Middle East ( 25 % ) . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) volunteer that both are equally important , while 6 % say that neither are important and 15 % do not offer an opinion .
Filipinos ' levels of trust in American and Chinese leadership have also started to converge since 2015 ; trust in China 's Xi Jinping has remained stable , but Filipinos have much less trust in Trump than they did in Obama . In 2015 , there was a 43-point gap between confidence in Obama ( 94 % ) and confidence in Xi ( 51 % ) to do the right thing in world affairs . Now , there is just a 16-point gap between Trump ( 69 % ) and Xi ( 53 % ) .
Veterans of the post-9/11 wars are among those who give the VA low marks . A survey conducted Aug. 1 – Dec .15 last year by the Washington Post and Kaiser Family Foundation of soldiers who had served in Iraq or Afghanistan found that 58 % rated the job the VA was doing to meet the needs of veterans as only fair or poor , while just 38 % graded it excellent or good . The veterans agency fared somewhat better in an extensive survey of post-9/11 veterans conducted in 2011 by the Pew Research Center . About half ( 51 % ) said the VA was doing an excellent or good job in meeting the needs of military veterans ( with 12 % rating it excellent ) while 44 % rated it only fair or poor .
Republicans ' views of the court , which tumbled 18 points following the court 's ruling on the health care law , have rebounded somewhat in the current survey . Nearly half of Republicans ( 47 % ) have a favorable opinion of the Supreme Court , up from 38 % last July , but still lower than the 56 % who viewed the court positively prior to its decision on the health care law .
But black adults were much more likely than whites and somewhat more likely than Hispanic adults to frequently discuss the COVID-19 outbreak with other people . Roughly a quarter ( 26 % ) of black adults said they discuss it almost all the time , more than twice the 10 % of white adults who said the same , and more than the 19 % of Hispanic adults who said the same .
Many Nigerians are skeptical about the country 's political and judicial systems . Almost six-in-ten ( 59 % ) say the statement `` elected officials care what ordinary people think '' does not describe their country well . In addition , a 57 % majority believes that no matter who wins an election , things do not change very much for people in Nigeria .
Tens of millions of registered voters did not cast a ballot in the 2016 presidential election , and the share who cited a `` dislike of the candidates or campaign issues '' as their main reason for not participating reached a new high of 25 % , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of new Census Bureau data . In other recent presidential elections , the share of registered voters who said they did n't participate because they disliked the candidates or campaign issues was considerably lower . In 2012 , for example , 13 % cited this as their primary reason . In pre-election polling last year , registered voters expressed far lower levels of satisfaction with their choices of candidates than in prior elections over the past several decades . While a dislike of the candidates or issues was the most frequently cited reason for not voting , other top reasons included a lack of interest or a feeling that their vote would n't make a difference ( 15 % ) , being too busy or having a conflicting schedule ( 14 % ) , having an illness or disability ( 12 % ) and being out of town or away from home ( 8 % ) . Another 11 % gave other reasons . The share who said they were too busy or had a conflicting schedule in 2016 – the most common reason given in previous elections – was down from 19 % in 2012 to 14 % . The share saying they did not vote because they were not interested or felt their vote would not make a difference ( 15 % in 2016 ) changed little from the last presidential election .
Hispanics are projected to be the largest racial or ethnic minority group in the 2020 U.S. electorate , overtaking the number of black eligible voters for the first time . Hispanics are expected to account for just over 13 % of eligible voters , slightly more than the share of black eligible voters .
Sub-Saharan African nations account for eight of the 10 fastest growing international migrant populations since 2010 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the latest United Nations data on the number of emigrants , or people living outside their country of birth . The number of emigrants from each of these sub-Saharan countries grew by 50 % or more between 2010 and 2017 , significantly more than the 17 % worldwide average increase for the same period . At the country level , only Syria had a higher rate of growth in its number of people living in other countries .
Most Republicans associate Islam with violence . Americans are divided about whether they see Islam as more likely than other religions to encourage violence among its believers : 46 % say it is more likely , while 45 % say it is not . Fully 68 % of Republicans view Islam as more likely than other religions to encourage violence , compared with just 30 % of Democrats . When this question was first asked , in March 2002 , just 33 % of Republicans ( and 22 % of Democrats ) said Islam was more likely than other religions to encourage violence among its believers .
For the month of August , public interest in the 2012 campaign is on par with the summer of 2008 . On average , over the past four weeks 29 % of Americans say they have followed news about the presidential candidates very closely ; 28 % said the same in August of 2008 . This is the fifth consecutive month in which 2012 campaign interest has been equal to interest in the 2008 campaign cycle . In previous elections , public attention to campaign news has spiked in September , following the final party conventions . In 2008 , the share following the election very closely jumped from 28 % in August to 47 % in September .
Younger Americans are more likely than their older counterparts to believe that organics are better for one 's health than conventionally grown produce . Some 54 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 47 % of those 30 to 49 say organic foods are better for one 's health . By comparison , 39 % of those ages 65 and older believe organic foods are better for one 's health than conventionally grown foods .
About a third say they followed news about the aftermath of the disasters in Japan ( 34 % ) or the budget brinksmanship ( 31 % ) more closely than any other major story , according to the latest News Interest Index survey , conducted April 7 - 10 among 1,004 adults . No other story comes close this week . Nearly half of the public ( 47 % ) says they followed news about the budget fight very closely . Comparable numbers tracked news about Japan and news about the U.S. economy very closely ( 46 % each ) . Still , just 13 % say economic news was their top story last week .
Overall , 38 % of the public expresses a mix of liberal and conservative positions . In both 1994 and 2004 , nearly half ( 49 % ) had mixed attitudes . As our 2014 polarization study found , Republicans and Democrats increasingly are on opposite sides of the ideological spectrum . Currently , 60 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners have consistently liberal or mostly liberal political values , double the share in 1994 ( 30 % ) and 11 percentage points higher than in 2004 . And the share of Democrats with consistently liberal views has increased from just 5 % in 1994 to 13 % in 2004 and 27 % currently .
But , as the electorate heads to the polls beginning May 22 , publics across Europe overwhelmingly think that their voice is not heard in Brussels , home to the EU . Majorities in most countries complain that the EU does not understand their needs and is intrusive and inefficient . And they express little enthusiasm for giving the EU greater power on economic issues .
Views also differ along partisan lines on how many immigrants should be allowed to enter the U.S . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Republicans say immigration to the U.S. should be decreased , compared with one-third ( 33 % ) of Democrats . Among Republicans , just 7 % say immigration should be increased , compared with 20 % of Democrats . Democrats are much more likely than Republicans ( 43 % vs. 25 % ) to say immigration should be kept at present levels . Overall , about half of Americans ( 49 % ) say immigration should be decreased .
Meanwhile , Hillary Clinton , the clear front-runner for the Democratic nomination , is widely popular with Democrats ; 77 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners view her favorably . However , Clinton 's favorable ratings have declined – among the public , as well as Democrats – since last summer . Currently , 49 % of the public has a favorable opinion of Clinton , while 47 % view her unfavorably . Clinton 's overall favorability rating has fallen nine points from 58 % last August . This is Clinton 's lowest favorability mark since the spring of 2008 , during her run for the Democratic nomination . ( For more on Clinton 's favorable ratings since 1992 , see this interactive ) . The decline in Clinton 's favorability since August has come about equally among Democrats and Democratic leaners ( from 86 % then to 77 % today ) and Republicans and Republican leaners ( from 27 % to 17 % ) .
Opinions about the administration 's handling of the situation are divided along partisan lines . A majority of Republicans ( 67 % ) disapprove of its handling of the situation , while most Democrats ( 56 % ) approve . Independents by roughly two-to-one ( 52 % to 24 % ) disapprove of how the administration has handled the situation involving Russia and Ukraine .
In the U.S. , 45 % say the country 's allies in Europe should spend more on their national defense , while 37 % say spending levels should stay about the same and only 9 % think they should be decreased . But there is a wide partisan gap on this issue , with 63 % of Republicans calling for more spending from allies , compared with just 33 % among Democrats . When asked about their own defense spending , only about one-in-three Germans ( 32 % ) want to see it increased . Roughly half say it should stay where it is , while 13 % want it cut .
The vast majority of countries and territories have a minimum voting age of 18 for national elections . The U.S. aligns with most other places in this respect . Out of 237 countries and territories for which the ACE Electoral Knowledge Network has data , 205 have a minimum voting age of 18 . Just 12 countries or territories allow people younger than 18 to vote in national elections . Worldwide , the lowest minimum voting age for national elections is 16 , including in Argentina , Austria and Brazil . The highest is in the United Arab Emirates , where citizens must be 25 . In Italy , there is a split voting age : The minimum voting age for the lower house of Parliament is 18 years old , while voters must be 25 to vote in Senate elections .
The survey finds that Hispanics oppose these enforcement measures , often by lopsided margins . Three quarters ( 75 % ) disapprove of workplace raids ; some 79 % prefer that local police not take an active role in identifying illegal immigrants ; and some 55 % disapprove of states checking for immigration status before issuing driver 's licenses . By contrast , non-Hispanics are much more supportive of all these policies , with a slight majority favoring workplace raids and a heavy majority favoring driver 's license checks .
Overall , observations related to users ' personal or professional lives are the most popular types of updates , while location-based tweets and links to videos are the least commonly mentioned :
About four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) say they think of Russia as a serious problem , but not an adversary ; fewer ( 28 % ) consider Russia an adversary and 24 % say the country is not much of a problem . Overall public views are about the same as there were in January 2017 , shortly before Donald Trump took office . As was the case then , about twice as many Republicans ( 33 % ) as Democrats ( 17 % ) say Russia is `` not much of a problem . '' However , somewhat fewer Democrats view Russia as an adversary than did so in January 2017 ( 30 % now , 38 % then ) , though the share describing it as either a serious problem or an adversary is little changed . Republicans ' views of Russia have changed little over this period .
Americans continue to follow news about the economic crisis closely because they feel it is directly relevant to their lives . More than eight-in-ten ( 85 % ) say even when the economic news is bad they feel better knowing what 's going on , while 77 % say they need to stay on top of economic news because it matters in the financial decisions they make .
Just a third of Americans have a favorable opinion of the federal government , the lowest positive rating in 15 years . Yet opinions about state and local governments remain favorable , on balance . As a result , the gap between favorable ratings of the federal government and state and local governments is wider than ever . Ten years ago , roughly two-thirds of Americans offered favorable assessments of all three levels of government : federal , state and local . But in the latest survey by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press , conducted April 4 - 15 , 2012 among 1,514 adults nationwide , the favorable rating for the federal government has fallen to just 33 % ; nearly twice as many ( 62 % ) have an unfavorable view . By contrast , ratings of state governments remain in positive territory , with 52 % offering a favorable and 42 % an unfavorable opinion of their state government . And local governments are viewed even more positively . By roughly two-to-one ( 61 % to 31 % ) most Americans offer a favorable assessment of their local government .
Another marker of class differences – household income – is also a strong indicator of internet usage . Adults living in households with an annual income of at least $ 75,000 a year are the most likely to use the internet , with 97 % of adults in this group currently reporting they are internet users . Those living in households with an annual income under $ 30,000 a year are less likely to report internet usage , with 74 % of adults doing so now . These trends have been consistent over time , although the more recent rise of smartphones has provided internet access to lower-income people , sometimes with lower prices , sometimes with other attractive technology features . Indeed , a recent report released by Pew Research found that lower-income Americans are increasingly `` smartphone-dependent '' for internet access .
Among those aware of the allegations , 72 % say Russia was definitely or probably behind the hacks , compared with just 24 % who think it was definitely or probably not involved . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents who are aware of the allegations are nearly united in thinking that Russia was behind the hacks – 93 % think it was Russia , including 57 % who say it definitely was . By contrast , GOP views are more divided : About as many Republicans and Republican leaners think Russia was not behind the cyberattacks ( 47 % ) as say it was ( 48 % ) .
Not unlike India , the poverty line in the U.S. is also built up from the USDA 's baseline food plan . As proposed by Mollie Orshansky in 1965 , the U.S. poverty line is defined as an income of three times the cost of the thrifty food plan ( meaning food would take up 33 % of a family 's income at the poverty line ) . By that standard , the U.S. poverty line in 2011 was $ 15.77 per day per capita for a household of four ( the precise line varies by household size and composition ) . Compared with the food budget for an urban Indian family at the poverty line , the food budget in the U.S. is 3.5 times higher – $ 5.07 vs. India 's $ 1.44 . The overall U.S. poverty-line budget is five times greater than India 's , $ 15.77 vs. $ 3.09 .
Across the 10 European countries surveyed , publics disagree about whether people leaving for jobs in other countries is a problem . Half or more in Sweden , the Netherlands , Germany , the UK and France say this is not a problem , while majorities in Greece , Spain , Italy and Hungary express concern .
Cell phone ownership is much more common in the emerging and developing nations surveyed . A median of 84 % across the 32 nations own a cell phone ( of any type ) , not far off from the U.S. figure of 90 % . Mobile ownership rates range from 97 % in China and Jordan down to 47 % in Pakistan . But smartphones – and the mobile access to the internet that they make possible in some locations – are not nearly as common as conventional cell phones . A median of only 24 % say they own a cell phone that can access the internet and applications ( See Appendix B for a full list of devices in each country ) . In the U.S. , 58 % owned a smartphone as of early 2014 .
In addition , banks have raised billions in new capital , either on their own or because regulators leaned on them to do so . And they generally have stricter lending standards than they did before the crisis , though according to the Fed 's quarterly survey of senior loan officers they 've eased up some in recent years . The net result : capital ratios that are well above their pre-crisis levels . The chart below shows one key metric , the `` Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio , '' as an average for banks in different size ranges . The rules impose a new requirement on banks to hold `` common equity Tier 1 capital '' — mostly money paid in by common stockholders plus retained earnings — equal to 4.5 % of their assets , with the latter weighted by their risk of default . Banks also will have to hold an additional 2.5 % as a `` capital conservation buffer '' — essentially as a first line of defense for periods of financial stress — or face restrictions on paying out dividends to shareholders and bonuses to executives . Other regulatory capital ratios will be raised .
Among those who expect that Russia or other foreign governments will try to influence the election , about six-in-ten ( 62 % ) say this is a major problem . Democrats are about twice as likely as Republicans to view attempts to influence the election as a major problem ( 78 % vs. 37 % ) .
Facebook is by far the most popular social media platform among Americans . Today , about eight-in-ten online Americans ( 79 % ) use Facebook , more than double the share that uses Twitter , Pinterest , Instagram or LinkedIn . About three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Americans who use Facebook now report that they visit the site on a daily basis – up from 70 % in 2015 .
Nearly three-quarters of the public ( 73 % ) say they heard at least a little about the end of Oprah Winfrey 's daytime talk show ; 36 % say they heard a lot about this while 37 % say they heard a little . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say they heard nothing at all . Two-thirds of the public ( 66 % ) say they heard at least a little about a judge finding Jared Loughner not fit to stand trial on allegations that he killed six and severely wounded Rep. Gabrielle Giffords in a January shooting spree in Tucson , Ariz. About a quarter ( 23 % ) say they heard a lot about the ruling , while 43 % say they heard a little . A third ( 33 % ) say they heard nothing at all about this .
Republicans and Republican leaners are divided on the question for the first time : 47 % favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry , while a nearly identical share is opposed ( 48 % ) . Fully three-quarters of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 76 % ) say they favor allowing same-sex marriage , compared to just 19 % who are opposed .
The 9/11 attacks imprinted themselves on Americans ' psyches in a way few other events in living memory have . In an August 2011 Pew Research survey , 97 % of Americans who were at least eight years old when the attacks happened said they remembered exactly where they were or what they were doing when they heard the news . The only event with that kind of recall was President Kennedy 's assassination in 1963 ( 95 % ) . Other notable events , from the 1969 moon landing to Osama bin Laden 's killing , ranked well behind . In a December 2009 poll , 53 % of Americans picked the 9/11 attacks as the most important event of the previous decade .
A plurality of those surveyed , 39 % of the nonprofit news outlets , said they favor `` some form of government subsidies '' to help fund organizations like theirs . More than a quarter ( 28 % ) said they were not sure . And another 30 % said they oppose government subsidies to help finance nonprofit news outlets .
Only around a quarter of U.S. Hispanics ( 23 % ) have heard of the term `` Latinx , '' and just 3 % say they use it to describe themselves . The gender-neutral , pan-ethnic term , which is used to describe the nation 's Hispanic population , has gained traction in recent years among some corporations , local governments , universities and news and entertainment outlets . But relatively few Hispanics are aware of the term and only a small fraction use it to describe themselves . Among Hispanics aware of the term , 65 % say `` Latinx '' should not be used to describe the nation 's Hispanic or Latino population , while 33 % say it should .
This recovery is also dogging it on putting people back to work . Since June 2009 , the number of nonfarm payroll jobs in the U.S. has grown by just 5.7 % — lower job growth than all but one of the prior lengthy expansions . In the first five years of the 1960s recovery , for instance , payrolls grew 17.3 % . They grew 16.4 % during the first five years of the 1980s `` Reagan recovery , '' and 9.6 % during the first five years of the tech-fueled boom of the 1990s .
A new Pew Research Center survey shows that across 40 countries surveyed in 2015 , a median of 67 % use the internet and 43 % report owning a smartphone . But one trend stands out : People in emerging and developing nations are quickly catching up to those in advanced nations in terms of access to technology . About half of adults across the 29 emerging and developing economies surveyed say that they use the internet . While many people are not yet experiencing the technology revolution , it also means most people in these countries now use the internet . Among the 21 countries surveyed in both 2013 and 2015 , a median of only 45 % had access in 2013 , but that number had risen to 54 % by 2015 .
To be sure , the NRA has been an active voice in debates over many of these policy proposals . And the public is divided when it comes to the amount of influence the NRA has over guns laws in the U.S. : While 44 % of all adults say the NRA has too much influence over gun legislation , 40 % say it has the right amount of influence . Relatively few ( 15 % ) say the NRA has too little influence . For their part , NRA members are largely satisfied with the amount of influence the organization has over U.S. gun laws . About six-in-ten ( 63 % ) say the NRA has the right amount of influence and 28 % say it has too little influence . Only 9 % of NRA members say the organization has too much influence over gun laws . Among non-gun owners , 50 % view the NRA as too influential .
Blog readers are somewhat more of a mainstream group than bloggers themselves . Like bloggers , blog readers are more likely to be young , male , well educated , internet veterans . Still , since our survey February , there has been greater-than-average growth in blog readership among women , minorities , those between the ages of 30 and 49 , and those with home dialup connections .
In fact , water will boil at about 202 degrees in Denver , due to the lower air pressure at such high elevations . In Pew Research Center 's recent survey on science knowledge , only 34 % of Americans knew that water boils at a lower temperature in the Mile High City than in Los Angeles , which is close to sea level . This was the question in our quiz that the fewest people answered correctly : 26 % said they thought water would boil at a higher temperature in Denver , while 39 % said it would boil at the same temperature in both places .
Assessments of Obama 's efforts to solve major problems also divide along racial , age and educational lines . Blacks ( 60 % ) are much more likely than whites ( 31 % ) or Hispanics ( 38 % ) to say Obama has made progress on the problems facing the nation . Though roughly even shares of whites and Hispanics say Obama has made progress on these issues , Hispanics are much more likely than whites to say Obama tried , but failed to make progress ( 45 % vs. 29 % ) , while whites are more likely than Hispanics to say he made these problems worse ( 26 % vs. 8 % ) .
Currently , 45 % of the public has a favorable opinion of the Republican Party , while 52 % view the GOP unfavorably . Opinions about the Democratic Party are the same ( 45 % favorable , 52 % unfavorable ) .
Most Americans still are not inclined to view Russia as an adversary , though the share saying Russia represents a serious problem has continued to increase , according to a new survey from the Pew Research Center . Currently , 26 % of the public says that Russia is an adversary , while 49 % think it is a serious problem but not an adversary , and just 15 % say it is not much of a problem . These opinions have changed only modestly since March , shortly after Russia 's annexation of Crimea . The share saying Russia is an adversary is unchanged since then , while the share saying Russia is a serious problem has increased six percentage points , from 43 % to 49 % . Since last November , however , there has been a substantial change in public views of Russia . Currently , 75 % view Russia either as an adversary or a serious problem , up from 54 % in November . And the proportion viewing Russia as not much of a problem has fallen by more than half , from 40 % then to just 15 % today .
Despite this imbalance in the coverage , the public has consistently expressed greater interest in news about events in Iraq than it has about the policy debate in Washington . Even in mid-September , shortly after Petraeus delivered his testimony , more Americans said they were following events in Iraq very closely than said the same about Petraeus ' report ( 31 % vs. 25 % ) . The only point this year when the public showed a great deal of interest in the Washington policy debate was in mid-January , shortly after Bush 's announcement that he was sending more troops in Iraq ( 40 % very closely ) . Even then , however , as many or more people said they were following news about events in Iraq very closely .
Looking ahead , the public has mixed views of how they think the national economy will perform over the next year . While slightly more say they expect conditions to be better a year from now ( 34 % ) than worse ( 25 % ) , 40 % expect conditions to be about the same .
When asked about the future of U.S.-European relations , nearly two-thirds of Americans say they would like relations to remain as close as they have been ( 65 % ) , while 30 % think the U.S. should take a more independent approach to foreign policy . However , when Germans were asked specifically about U.S.-German relations , roughly seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) said they would like their country to pursue a more independent approach .
A significant minority of American adults have felt confused , discouraged or impatient when trying to make decisions about sharing their personal information with companies . When asked if they felt confident they understood what would be done with their personal information as they were deciding whether or not to share it , 50 % said they felt confident they understood – but 47 % said they were not confident .
By contrast , Ukrainians are distrustful of Putin : About eight-in-ten lack confidence in the Russian leader when it comes to world affairs . Ukrainians have become much more negative toward Putin and Russia , especially since the annexation of Crimea in 2013 . Most Ukrainians expressed confidence in Putin and had a favorable view of Russia in 2007 . But , as of 2019 , only 11 % of Ukrainians have confidence in Putin , while 32 % have a favorable opinion of Russia . ( The difference in Ukraine may be , in part , as result of changes in sampling after the Russian invasion of eastern Ukraine . For example , Crimea was surveyed in 2014 , but was omitted from sampling in 2019 due to security concerns . )
Nearly a year into Trump 's presidency , there has been a substantial increase in the share of Democrats expressing anger at the federal government . Currently , 29 % of Democrats say they are angry at the government , which equals the share saying this in October 2006 , before the midterm elections that year . About one-in-five Republicans ( 19 % ) say they are angry at the government , which is much lower than the share saying this through most of Obama 's administration . However , the share of Republicans expressing anger at the federal government is higher today than at points during the first six years of Bush 's presidency ( question was not asked later in his administration ) .
A majority of Americans ( 55 % ) say that , if they were to wear a mask in their local area , people around them would generally approve ; only 4 % think that people in their communities would disapprove , while 40 % say that people would not care one way or the other .
Florida has long been a battleground state in presidential elections , with Hispanic voters playing a growing role in determining the outcome of the state 's presidential vote . Hispanic voters this year make up an even larger share of the state 's registered voters than in past years , but the profile of the Latino electorate has shifted over the past decade or so , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of state voter registration data . Due to the state 's large Cuban voting bloc , the Latino vote had been reliably Republican . For example , President George W. Bush won both the Hispanic vote and the state in 2004 . But 2008 represented a tipping point : More Latinos were registered as Democrats than Republicans , and the gap has only widened since then . This has led to the growing influence of Democrats among the state 's Hispanic voters in 2008 and 2012 , two presidential elections in which Barack Obama carried both Hispanics and the state . At the same time , the number of Latino registered voters in Florida who indicate no party affiliation has also grown rapidly during this time , and by 2012 had surpassed Republican registrations . Among all Floridians , registered Democrats outnumber Republicans in 2016 . This is due in part to Hispanics , who accounted for 88 % of growth in the number of registered Democrats between 2006 and 2016 . During this time , the number of Hispanic registered voters increased by 61 % , while the number of Hispanics identifying as Democrats increased by 83 % and those having no party affiliation increased by 95 % . The number of Hispanic Republican registered voters has grown too – but much more slowly ( just 16 % ) . As a result , among Hispanic registered voters in 2016 , 678,000 were registered as Democrats , 610,000 indicated no party affiliation and 479,000 were registered as Republicans . ( It 's worth noting that not all registered voters cast a ballot , and voter turnout has a large impact in swing states like Florida . )
When it comes to the likelihood of cyberattacks , most say that an attack where sensitive national security information will be accessed is either very or somewhat likely ( or volunteer that this has already happened ) . A median of 74 % across the 26 countries hold this view .
A January 2014 survey found broad public agreement that economic inequality has grown over the past decade but wide partisan divisions on what to do about it . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of the public believed the gap between the rich and everyone else has increased in the last 10 years .
Of the two most recent past presidents , Bill Clinton remains a more popular figure than George W. Bush . Today , 58 % of Americans view Clinton favorably , while 38 % have an unfavorable opinion . George W. Bush , by contrast , is viewed more negatively than positively ( 44 % favorable , 52 % unfavorable ) . Though views of Bill Clinton remain in positive territory , they have declined 10 points since 2012 . In particular , Clinton is now viewed far less favorably by Republicans and Republican leaners than he was in September 2012 ( just 28 % view him favorably today , down from 43 % ) . And while about eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) Democrats and Democratic leaners view the former Democratic president favorably today , his ratings among Democrats were slightly better ( 88 % favorable ) in September 2012 . George W. Bush 's ratings have been relatively stable since early 2011 . Currently , nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) of Republicans and Republican leaners , along with just 23 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners have positive opinions of the former GOP president .
Border Patrol agents apprehended more migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border in fiscal 2019 than in any year since fiscal 2007 , according to new federal data . The influx of migrants has strained border facilities and become a major policy focus for President Donald Trump 's administration . Below is a closer look at the shifting dynamics at the southwestern border , based on the new numbers from U.S. Customs and Border Protection , the federal agency tasked with patrolling the border . Apprehensions at the U.S.-Mexico border more than doubled between fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2019 but remained below historical highs . There were 851,508 apprehensions in the 2019 fiscal year ( October 2018-September 2019 ) , a 115 % increase from the previous fiscal year and the highest total in 12 years . Still , the total remained far below the 1,643,679 apprehensions recorded in 2000 , the peak year . And apprehensions regularly exceeded 1 million per fiscal year during the 1980s , 1990s and 2000s .
In regions throughout the world , people who believe the U.S. economy influences their own economy tend to say it is a negative rather than a positive influence . Majorities or pluralities in 14 of the 23 non-U.S. publics surveyed considered U.S. economic influence to be negative . Seventy percent or more of those polled expressed this view in Britain ( 72 % ) , Germany ( 72 % ) , Australia ( 71 % ) , Turkey ( 70 % ) and France ( 70 % ) . In six nations , 10 % or fewer believed the U.S. economy positively affects their economy . Positive assessments were especially rare in several nations where anti-American sentiments have run high in recent years , such as Turkey ( only 4 % saw the impact as good ) , Argentina ( 4 % ) , and Pakistan ( 6 % ) .
The 2009 poll revealed big improvements in America 's image in many other nations as well , especially in Western Europe . Indeed , France and Germany were the only countries where overall ratings for the U.S. improved more than in Indonesia . But — with the exception of Indonesia — there was generally much less improvement in the predominantly Muslim nations surveyed . U.S. favorability also rose in Egypt ( from 22 % favorable to 27 % ) and Jordan ( from 19 % to 25 % ) , although in both countries only about one-in-four respondents offered a positive assessment of the U.S . In Pakistan , the Palestinian territories , and Turkey there was essentially no change , and positive opinions about the U.S. remained rare .
Jason Collins , a center for the NBA 's Washington Wizards , was the second-most frequently mentioned gay or lesbian public figure in the general-population survey . Just before the survey was conducted , Collins became the first active male professional athlete in a major North American team sport to come out publicly as gay ; he 's due to become a free agent next month . ( The LGBT survey was conducted before Collins ' announcement . ) It 's worth noting , though , that almost four-in-ten Americans ( 38 % ) said they could n't name any gay or lesbian entertainers or public figures , including 61 % of people age 65 and older .
Obama 's approval ratings fluctuated during the early part of this year . But since May , when 51 % approved of his job performance , his ratings have moved steadily downward – to 46 % in July , 43 % in October and 41 % this month . ( For a breakdown of Obama 's job approval ratings , see detailed tables ) . While Obama 's overall marks have changed little over the past month , the 12-point difference between disapproval ( 53 % ) and approval ( 41 % ) is the largest of his presidency . Since Obama 's first year in office , his job rating has been above 50 % on only a handful of occasions . His rating last December ( 55 % approve , 39 % disapprove ) was his highest since September 2009 ( 55 % approve , 33 % disapprove ) , with the exception of a brief spike after the killing of Osama bin Laden in May 2011 ( 56 % approve , 38 % disapprove ) .
An estimated 278,000 Hispanics of Argentine origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Argentines in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Argentine origin ; this includes immigrants from Argentina and those who trace their family ancestry to Argentina . Argentines are the 14th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for less than 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Argentine-origin population has increased 158 % , growing from 108,000 to 278,000 over the period . At the same time , the Argentine foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 96 % , from 83,000 in 2000 to 163,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
Among Democrats , just 13 % of liberals say the U.S. stands above other nations , compared with 23 % of moderate and conservative Democrats . And nearly three-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 29 % ) say there are other countries better than the U.S. ; only 13 % of conservative and moderate Democrats say the same . Adults 65 and older are the most likely to say the U.S. stands above all other nations ( 44 % ) . By contrast , just 12 % of those younger than 30 say the same , the lowest share in any age category . There is little difference in views of the nation 's global standing by race and ethnicity : About three-in-ten whites ( 30 % ) and blacks ( 31 % ) and about a quarter of Hispanics ( 26 % ) view the U.S. as above all other nations . The majority view across each of these groups is that the U.S. is a great country , on par with some other countries .
Italy only needs to receive about 10,000 more refugees by Dec. 31 to overtake Greece in number of refugee arrivals in 2016 . Already , Italy has received more refugees than it did in all of 2015 ( 153,842 ) and is quickly approaching its 2014 refugee total ( 170,100 ) . One of the reasons the overall number of refugees to Europe is down is a March 2016 agreement between Turkey and the European Union that requires the return of any new asylum-seekers traveling from Turkey . Since the agreement , the number of Syrian refugees in neighboring Turkey has remained stable , and relatively few asylum-seekers from Syria have made the journey to Greece .
Republicans and Republican leaners are divided on the question for the first time : 47 % favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry , while a nearly identical share is opposed ( 48 % ) . Fully three-quarters of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 76 % ) say they favor allowing same-sex marriage , compared to just 19 % who are opposed . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , a majority of Millennials ( 60 % ) support same-sex marriage , while 38 % are opposed . About half of Gen X Republicans ( 51 % ) favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally . Majorities of Republican Baby Boomers ( 53 % ) and Republican Silents ( 62 % ) continue to oppose same-sex marriage .
Americans say the two news stories they followed most closely last week were the reinvigorated debate over health care reform in Washington and the second week of the Winter Olympics in Vancouver . In interviews shortly after the Feb. 25 bipartisan summit on health care legislation , a quarter of the public ( 25 % ) says they followed the health care debate more closely than any other story last week . A comparable number ( 24 % ) say they followed the Winter Olympics most closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey , conducted Feb. 26-March 1 among 1,008 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The health care debate dominated news coverage last week , making up 24 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . Among the other top stories were the economic crisis ( 11 % of coverage ) , Toyota 's continuing problems ( 10 % ) and the Olympics ( 7 % ) .
Pressure on workers : As populations age , working-age people in the developed world may have to support more dependents , while workers in India and several major African nations will likely have to support fewer dependents .
In Florida , Cubans were about twice as likely as non-Cuban Latinos to vote for Donald Trump . More than half ( 54 % ) supported the Republican president-elect , compared with about a quarter ( 26 % ) of non-Cuban Latinos , according to National Election Pool exit poll data . A significant share of Cubans in Florida voted for Hillary Clinton – 41 % – but this was far below the 71 % of non-Cuban Latinos who backed the Democratic nominee . At the same time , the level of support for Trump among Cubans was similar to that of non-Latinos in the state ( 51 % ) .
With the Federal Reserve raising interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade , views of the institution are not immune from today 's politically polarized climate . In 2014 , roughly half of Americans ( 47 % ) had a favorable opinion of the Fed and 37 % had an unfavorable view . But Republicans , especially conservative Republicans , were more likely to view the institution unfavorably . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents expressed favorable opinions of the Fed by a roughly two-to-one margin ( 57 % vs. 28 % ) . Only 39 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents said the same , while nearly half ( 48 % ) expressed an unfavorable opinion . Among conservative Republicans , 54 % viewed the Fed unfavorably , while just a third had a favorable opinion . Moderate and liberal Republicans were more likely than conservatives to view the Fed favorably ( 47 % ) .
Opinions about the U.S. response are especially negative in South Korea , Denmark , Germany and Belgium . In each of these countries , around nine-in-ten adults say the U.S. response to COVID-19 has been bad , including roughly two-thirds in South Korea ( 66 % ) and Belgium ( 64 % ) who say it has been very bad . People outside the U.S. rate America 's response to COVID-19 more negatively than the response of their own country , the World Health Organization , the European Union and – in most cases – China . In all 13 countries surveyed this summer , people see the U.S. response to the coronavirus outbreak as worse than the response of their own country , the WHO and the EU . And in all but one country , Japan , people see America 's response more negatively than that of China . ( In Japan , 15 % of adults say the U.S. has done a good job , while 16 % say the same about China . )
Americans prefer to keep certain information about themselves outside the purview of online searches , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in June 2019 . Given the option , 74 % of U.S. adults say it is more important to be able to `` keep things about themselves from being searchable online , '' while 23 % say it is more important to be able to `` discover potentially useful information about others . ''
Support for Obama is driving the vote of fewer Democrats today than in 2010 . In the current survey , 38 % of voters who plan to support the Democratic candidate in their district say they consider their vote as `` for '' Obama . Four years ago , far more Democratic voters ( 53 % ) said this .
During the years of the Bush presidency , America 's image never grew quite as negative in Canada as it did in much of Western Europe , but it nonetheless declined substantially . In 2002 , 72 % of Canadians expressed a positive opinion of the U.S. ; by 2007 only 55 % held this view . However , the most recent Pew Global Attitudes survey , conducted in May and June of this year , finds that 68 % of Canadians now have a favorable view of the U.S. , while just 28 % express an unfavorable opinion .
Average audience for morning news programs from ABC , CBS and NBC declined over the past year , down 4 % in 2018 , to about 3.2 million from 3.3 million .
House Speaker Paul Ryan 's announcement Wednesday that he would not seek re-election adds a big name to what was already shaping up to be a near-record year of seat turnovers in the U.S. House of Representatives . More House members are choosing not to run for re-election to that body than at any time in the past quarter-century – including a record number of Republicans , according to a Pew Research Center analysis . As of April 11 , 55 representatives ( 38 Republicans and 17 Democrats ) have announced they 're not running for new terms , according to our count . In addition , one Republican ( Blake Farenthold of Texas ) and one Democrat ( John Conyers of Michigan ) have resigned . That makes a total of 57 voluntary departures , or 13 % of the House 's full voting membership .
An estimated 791,000 Hispanics of Honduran origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Hondurans are the eighth-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 1.5 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013 . Since 1990 , the Honduran-origin population has increased sixfold , growing from 127,000 to 791,000 over the period . At the same time , the foreign-born population of Honduran origin living in the U.S. grew by over 407 % , up from 98,000 in 1990 to 498,000 in 2013 . In comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 34.6 million , or 64.1 % , of the Hispanic population in 2013 .
The share of Americans who rate their own personal financial situation positively has fallen to a 17-year low . Just 35 % of Americans say they are in excellent or good shape financially , down slightly from 38 % in October . The last time personal financial ratings fell to this level was in August of 1992 .
The current poll reflects unprecedented levels of partisanship with respect to evaluations of the president 's performance . As has been the case since Bush first took office , Republicans are solidly behind him , with 85 % approving and just 11 % disapproving of the job he is doing . But for the first time , Democrats are nearly as unified in opposition to Bush . Just 13 % of Democrats approve of the president 's job performance , while 79 % disapprove . Prior to this year , Democratic approval of Bush had never dipped below 23 % . Equally important , recent surveys have found Bush 's job approval among independents to be at an all-time low . In the current survey , as well as three other surveys conducted in late March and April , more independents disapprove of the president 's performance in office ( 49 % currently ) than approve ( 40 % ) .
Most Americans believe libraries do a decent job of serving the education and learning needs of their communities and their own families . A new survey by Pew Research Center shows that 76 % of adults say libraries serve the learning and educational needs of their communities either `` very well '' ( 37 % ) or `` pretty well '' ( 39 % ) . Further , 71 % say libraries serve their own personal needs and the needs of their families `` very well '' or `` pretty well . ''
The survey finds that Democratic voters cite several factors as important in deciding whom to support for the nomination , including the personal characteristics of candidates and their positions on health care and other issues . Still , the most frequent single response to the open-ended question , offered by 21 % of Democrats , is that the candidate is able to defeat Donald Trump .
While a majority of voters ( 69 % ) are white non-Hispanics , nonwhite voters now make up an increasing share of all voters : 29 % of registered voters are African American , Hispanic or Asian American or belong to another race , up from 16 % in 1997 . Nonwhites constitute nearly four-in-ten Democratic voters ( 39 % ) , compared with 24 % two decades ago . The GOP coalition also has become more racially and ethnically diverse , but nonwhites make up only 14 % of Republican voters , up from 8 % in 1997 . The educational makeup of the two parties ' electorates also has changed substantially over the past two decades . When race and education are taken into account , white voters who do to not have a college degree make up a diminished share of Democratic registered voters . White voters who do not have a four-year degree now constitute just a third of Democratic voters , down from 56 % two decades ago . By contrast , non-college white voters continue to make up a majority of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters ( 59 % now , 66 % in 1997 ) .
The number of adults in the prime working ages of 25 to 64 – 173.2 million in 2015 – will rise to 183.2 million in 2035 , according to Pew Research Center projections . That total growth of 10 million over two decades will be lower than the total in any single decade since the Baby Boomers began pouring into the workforce in the 1960s . The growth rate of working-age adults will also be markedly reduced . But perhaps the most important component of the growth in the working-age population over the next two decades will be the arrival of future immigrants . The number of working-age immigrants is projected to increase from 33.9 million in 2015 to 38.5 million by 2035 , with new immigrant arrivals accounting for all of that gain . ( The number of current immigrants of working age is projected to decline as some will turn 65 , while others are projected to leave the country or die . ) Without these new arrivals , the number of immigrants of working age would decline by 17.6 million by 2035 , as would the total projected U.S. working-age population , which would fall to 165.6 million . The Pew Research Center projections for foreign-born working-age adults are based on current rates of immigration , combining lawful and unauthorized . They assume that two-thirds of immigrants arriving through 2035 will be ages 25 to 64 , as is true of today 's new immigrants .
Most unauthorized immigrant adults reside with immediate family members—spouses or children . About half of undocumented adults live with their own children under 18 . Nearly half of unauthorized immigrant households ( 47 % ) consist of a couple with children . That is a greater share than for households of U.S.-born residents ( 21 % ) or legal immigrants ( 35 % ) . This difference stems in large part from the relatively youthful composition of the unauthorized immigrant population . Most children of unauthorized immigrants—73 % in 2008—are U.S. citizens by birth . The number of U.S.-born children in mixed-status families ( unauthorized immigrant parents and citizen children ) has expanded rapidly in recent years , to 4 million in 2008 from 2.7 million in 2003 . By contrast , the number of children who are unauthorized immigrants themselves ( 1.5 million in 2008 ) hardly changed in the five-year period and may have declined slightly since 2005 .
The vast majority of teens ( 95 % ) spend time with their friends outside of school , in person , at least occasionally . But for most teens , this is not an everyday occurrence . Just 25 % of teens spend time with friends in person ( outside of school ) on a daily basis . For many teens , texting is the dominant way that they communicate on a day-to-day basis with their friends . Some 88 % of teens text their friends at least occasionally , and fully 55 % do so daily
The 36 identified Freedom Caucus members had an average score of +0.659 , more than a third higher than the average score for all other House GOP members ( +0.455 ) ; the least conservative Freedom Caucus member ( Steve Pearce of New Mexico ) is still more conservative than the average non-Freedom Caucus House Republican . Freedom Caucus members also have spent decidedly less time in the House . Of the 36 identified members , 26 ( 72 % ) were first elected in 2010 or later , compared with 54 % of other House Republicans .
At a time of growing partisan polarization , Republicans and Democrats are deeply divided in their views of many issues and the opposing party . These differences extend to their opinions about the impact of many of the nation 's institutions , according to a Pew Research Center survey , and when it comes to the news media , this partisan gap is growing wider . Majorities in both parties view the news media 's impact negatively , but this opinion is far more prevalent among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 85 % ) than among Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 59 % ) . Just 9 % of Republicans say the media have a positive effect on the way things are going in the U.S. , compared with 33 % of Democrats .
A careful look at aggregated data from Pew Research polling in 2011 and 2012 reveals the nuanced nature of opinion on the issue and the large amount of gray area . While a majority of Americans say they support some abortion rights , more of those say abortion should be legal in `` most '' cases ( 33 % ) rather than `` all '' ( 20 % ) . On the other side of the debate , 25 % say abortion should be illegal in `` most '' cases and 16 % say it should be illegal in `` all '' instances . In other words , majorities of both supporters and opponents of abortion rights approve of some exceptions .
The results of U.S. Senate elections increasingly are aligned with states ' party preferences in presidential elections – a trend that could have major implications in this year 's battle for control of the Senate . The vast majority of the regular and special Senate elections held since 2012 – 122 of 139 – have been won by candidates who belonged to or were aligned with the party that won that state 's most recent presidential race , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of election results going back to 1980 . That represents a marked contrast with prior years : As recently as 2006 , nearly a third of Senate contests ( 10 out of 33 ) were won by candidates of different parties than their state 's most recent presidential pick .
As Obama prepares to deliver his sixth State of the Union , 24 % say his speech will be more important than past addresses , while 19 % say it will be less important ; 52 % say it is about as important as previous State of the Unions .
A majority ( 55 % ) now say that they are hearing mostly bad news about the job situation . While that is up sharply from March ( 38 % ) , it is closer to the numbers recorded late last year : 51 % said this in early December and 64 % in November . This measure hit a peak last August ( 74 % mostly bad news ) , amid increased concern about an economic slowdown .
Opinions about whether congressional Democrats are keeping the promises they made during the campaign are similar to Pelosi 's job approval : 40 % say Democrats are keeping their campaign promises , while a somewhat larger share ( 46 % ) say Democrats are not keeping their promises . That is a more positive verdict from the public than congressional Republicans received after their 2014 and 2010 victories , when majorities said they were not keeping campaign promises ( 65 % said this in May 2015 , 52 % in April 2011 ) . After the Democrats won Congress in 2006 , the public was divided on whether they kept their promises ( 40 % said they did , 38 % said they did not ) . Neither party has come close to the positive views of the GOP after they gained control of Congress in the 1994 midterm . In April 1995 , 59 % of the public said Republicans were keeping their campaign promises ; just 31 % said they were not .
For the first time in a Pew Research Center political values survey , only about half of Republicans ( 47 % ) agree that `` there needs to be stricter laws and regulations to protect the environment . '' This represents a decline of 17 points since 2009 and a fall of nearly 40 points , from 86 % , since 1992 . The partisan gap over this measure was modest two decades ago . Today , roughly twice as many Democrats as Republicans say stricter environmental laws and regulations are needed ( 93 % vs. 47 % ) .
In addition to the differences in their admission categories , green card holders who are new arrivals and those who adjust their status also differ in age and , to some degree , in where they come from , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the recently released Department of Homeland Security data . The top birth countries for both groups included Mexico , China and India ( these are also the top origin countries in the overall U.S. immigrant population ) . But beyond that , the country profiles of these two groups differ somewhat . Among the birth countries with the most people who adjusted their status were Cuba and South Korea , whose majority of nationals have been admitted in the employment-related category . New arrivals were more likely to be from the Dominican Republic , Haiti and Vietnam ( overwhelmingly with family sponsorship ) , and the Philippines ( mainly with family sponsorship ) .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Nov. 1 - 4 , 2012 , among 1,011 adults , finds that interest in the storm is particularly high in the Northeast : fully 73 % of those living in this region say they are following news about Sandy very closely , compared with 53 % of those in the South , 46 % of those in the Midwest and 43 % of those in the West . Interest in Hurricane Sandy is far higher than for Hurricane Isaac earlier this year ( 31 % very closely ) and ranks as one of the most closely followed storms in Pew Research surveys dating to 1989 . Interest is comparable to that for Hurricane Ike in September 2008 ( 50 % very closely ) , but remains well below the 70 % who were following Hurricane Katrina very closely in September 2005 .
Partisanship has long been a major factor in public attitudes about labor unions . In the new survey , 68 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the reduction in union membership has been mostly bad for working people ; half as many Republicans and Republican leaners ( 34 % ) say the same . By about two-to-one , blacks are more likely to say the decline in union representation has been mostly bad for working people than that it has been mostly good ( 65 % vs. 29 % ) . Smaller shares of whites ( 49 % ) or Hispanics ( 52 % ) say it has been mostly bad .
On average , white evangelical Protestants are less likely than non-evangelical Protestants to have a great deal of trust in medical scientists ( 31 % vs. 41 % , respectively ) and scientists ( 25 % vs. 36 % ) . These differences remain even after controlling for party identification and education .
While coverage of Bush 's decision to commute Libby 's sentence was not quite as intense as coverage of the verdict had been , public interest in the story increased significantly . During Libby 's trial less than 10 % of the public followed the story very closely , and just 13 % paid very close attention to his guilty verdict in March . But 27 % of the public paid very close attention to news of Bush 's decision to commute Libby 's sentence . Democrats are more interested than Republicans in this latest chapter ( 34 % vs. 22 % followed the Libby news very closely ) . Roughly one-in-ten Americans listed the Libby story as the one they followed more closely than any other this past week . A quarter of the public ( 24 % ) followed news about the 2008 campaign very closely last week , and 10 % listed this as their most closely followed story . The campaign was the third most heavily covered news story ( 8 % of the newshole ) , and the dominant theme of the coverage was the candidates ' second-quarter fundraising totals . As has been the case for much of this year , Democrats paid closer attention than Republicans to campaign news ( 33 % vs. 21 % followed very closely ) . The widespread flooding in Texas and the plains states attracted nearly as much interest as the presidential campaign , though much less news coverage . Roughly one-in-five Americans ( 21 % ) followed the floods very closely and 10 % listed this as their most closely followed story . The national news media devoted 3 % of its overall coverage to this story . The Iraq policy debate heated up again last week , as prominent Republicans continued to speak out against the current administration 's policy . More than a quarter of the public ( 27 % ) paid very close attention to the debate in Washington over U.S. policy in Iraq , but only 4 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . This story constituted 3 % of the overall newshole .
Attitudes have changed dramatically since then , especially in the past few decades . While there are no trends going all the way back to 1969 , the General Social Survey has asked since 1973 if `` sexual relations between two adults of the same sex '' is always wrong , almost always wrong , wrong only sometimes or not wrong at all . The public 's opposition to homosexual behavior stayed steady until the early 1990s . Back in the 1973 General Social Survey , 73 % said sexual relations between two adults of the same sex was `` always wrong '' and 11 % said it was `` not wrong at all . '' The share saying `` always wrong '' continued to be large and peaked at 77 % in 1991 , but public opinion has sharply shifted since then . Today , 46 % say sexual relations between two adults of the same sex is `` always wrong '' and about as many ( 44 % ) say it is `` not wrong at all . ''
Not surprisingly , most Americans are aware that the U.S. housing market boomed in the early years of this century . More than seven-in-ten among the public ( 72 % ) say home prices have gone up in their areas in recent years — four times as many as those who say that prices have dropped . In that they are correct — at least until very recently .
But among Democrats and Democratic leaners , 53 % say they worry Kavanaugh would make the Supreme Court too conservative , while far fewer say they do n't worry about this ( 28 % ) . Among Republicans , a 63 % majority say they do n't worry about Kavanaugh shifting the court 's ideology ; small shares worry that he would make the court too conservative ( 12 % ) or not conservative enough ( 17 % ) .
In a change from late 2014 , Boehner 's ratings among Republicans and Republican leaners are now more unfavorable ( 43 % ) than favorable ( 34 % ) . Republicans and leaners had rated him either positively or about even in eight previous Pew Research Center surveys since the Republicans won back the House in November 2010 .
Overall , there has been much more stability than change across the 48 political values measures that the Pew Research Center has tracked since 1987 . But the average partisan gap has nearly doubled over this 25-year period – from 10 percentage points in 1987 to 18 percentage points in the new study .
In 1970 , 69 % of adults were married , and they paid 80 % of all federal income taxes . As of 2014 , the share of married adults had dropped to half of the adult population ( 50 % ) but the share of income taxes paid by them fell much less , to 74 % .
Recipients of these special immigrant visas can receive refugee resettlement benefits from the U.S. government , which include 30 to 120 days of financial assistance . About 85 % of those who have entered the U.S. under the special immigrant visa programs ( from Oct. 1 , 2007 , to Sept 30 , 2017 ) have received refugee assistance and resettled in states across the country . Top resettlement states during this time include California ( 17,416 ) , Texas ( 10,598 ) , and Virginia ( 7,249 ) .
An overwhelming proportion of Americans are familiar with Twitter , the online information-sharing network . Perhaps more surprisingly , a large majority also knows that children who are born to illegal immigrants in the United States are automatically U.S. citizens . Yet the public continues to struggle in identifying political figures , foreign leaders and even knowing facts about key government policies . Only about a third of Americans ( 34 % ) know that the government 's bailout of banks and financial institutions was enacted under the Bush administration . Nearly half ( 47 % ) incorrectly say that the Troubled Asset Relief Program – widely known as TARP – was signed into law by President Obama . Even fewer ( 28 % ) are able to identify John Roberts as chief justice of the U.S. Supreme Court . And just 19 % know that David Cameron is the new prime minister of Great Britain . The Pew Research Center 's latest News IQ Quiz , conducted July 1 - 5 among 1,007 adults reached on cell phones and landlines , finds that both young people and older people have a basic awareness of Twitter : 85 % know that it is an online information-sharing service . And while young people fare particularly poorly on political knowledge , people younger than 30 are as likely as older Americans to know the host country of this year 's World Cup and that children born to illegal immigrants in the United States are automatically citizens .
Protection tops the list of reasons for owning a gun . While many gun owners say they have more than one reason for owning a firearm , 67 % cite protection as a major reason . About four-in-ten gun owners ( 38 % ) say hunting is a major reason , and 30 % cite sport shooting . Smaller shares cite a gun collection or their job as major reasons .
In the U.S. , seven-in-ten Indian Americans say they celebrate Diwali , according to a 2012 Pew Research Center survey of Asian Americans . This includes most Indian-American Hindus ( 95 % ) and nearly half of those who are not Hindus ( 45 % ) .
Overall impressions of economic news continue to be mixed : 59 % say they have been hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , 28 % say they have been hearing mostly bad news while 10 % say they have been hearing mostly good news . For the most part , however , opinions about economic news remain mixed as they have for much of Obama 's presidency . But during his first months in office , perceptions were much more negative : in February 2009 , 60 % said news about the economy was mostly bad , 37 % said it was mixed and just 2 % said news about the economy was mostly good .
When it comes to each country 's relationship with Russia , both Americans and Germans agree it is better to maintain the bilateral relationship than to be close with Russia . But compared with 2019 , more Germans express a desire to be closer with the U.S. than with Russia , when roughly four-in-ten chose the U.S. and three-in-ten volunteered `` both . ''
Social networking sites have been very popular with young adults ages 18 - 29 almost since their inception . Between February 2005 and August 2006 , the use of social networking sites among young adult internet users ages 18 - 29 jumped from 9 % to 49 % ; during this same time period , use of these sites by 30 - 49 year olds remained essentially unchanged . Since then , users under age 30 have continued to be significantly more likely to use social networking sites when compared with every other adult age group . As of May 2011 , over eight in ten internet users ages 18 - 29 use social networking sites ( 83 % ) , compared with seven in ten 30 - 49 year-olds ( 70 % ) , half of 50 - 64 year-olds ( 51 % ) , and a third of those age 65 and older ( 33 % ) .
In the wake of yet another breakdown in the Middle East peace process , publics in the region have little faith that a way can be found for Israel and an independent Palestinian state to coexist peacefully with each other . Majorities or pluralities in countries across the region voice the view that peaceful coexistence is not possible . And such pessimism is on the rise among many Middle Eastern publics . But grave doubts about an Israeli-Palestinian modus vivendi are also expressed by a significant majority of Tunisians ( 71 % ) , the Palestinians themselves ( 63 % ) and Turks ( 62 % ) . Among Palestinians , 68 % of those living in Gaza and 60 % living on the West Bank say peaceful accommodation is impossible . Only 16 % of Palestinians in the Palestinian territories see Israel and a Palestinian state coexisting peacefully .
The share of nonwhite undergraduate students increased by 17 percentage points ( from 28 % to 45 % ) between fall 1997 and fall 2017 , due partly to a rapidly rising share of Hispanic students . The Hispanic share of undergraduates more than doubled during this span , from 9 % in 1997 to 20 % in 2017 . By comparison , the share of full-time faculty members who were nonwhite grew by 10 percentage points over that period , from 14 % vs. 24 % .
On the digital side , The Atlantic and The Economist fared the best in terms of growing their audiences in recent years , according to comScore data provided by the MPA . Both publications posted gains in their web traffic between the third quarters of 2013 and 2014 . The New Yorker , however , saw its traffic decline slightly , falling from 3.3 million unique visitors to 3.1 million .
Americans continued to follow the health care debate more closely than any other news story last week , and the public sees the odds of a reform bill ultimately being passed increasing . In the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Dec. 18 - 21 among 1,018 adults nationwide , 61 % say they think a health reform bill will pass over the next year , while 34 % think it will not . That is the most positive assessment in two months of tracking the public 's outlook .
A good example is a Pew Research Center survey from June of this year , in which we wanted to focus in depth on the U.S. Hispanic population . In the previous survey from March , there were 291 Hispanic respondents out of 2,254 total respondents , or 13 % of the sample before weighting . This is pretty close to the true Hispanic share of the population ( 15 % ) , but we wanted to have more than 291 people responding so we could do a more in-depth analysis . In order to have a larger sample of Hispanics in June , we surveyed 543 Hispanics out of 2,245 total respondents , or 24 % of the unweighted sample . This gave us a much larger sample to analyze , and made the estimates for Hispanics more precise .
With a contested primary in only one party this year , fewer Americans are closely following news about the presidential campaign than four years ago . As a consequence , long-term declines in the number of people getting campaign news from such sources as local TV and network news have steepened , and even the number gathering campaign news online , which had nearly tripled between 2000 and 2008 , has leveled off in 2012 . The one constant over the course of the past four elections is the reach of cable news . Currently , 36 % of Americans say they are regularly learning about the candidates or campaign on cable news networks . That is virtually unchanged from previous campaigns , yet cable news is now the top regular source for campaign news . In contrast to cable , the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press ' 2012 campaign news survey , conducted Jan. 4 - 8 among 1,507 adults nationwide , finds broad declines in the numbers getting campaign news from newspapers , and local and network TV news . Just 20 % say they regularly learn something about the presidential campaign or candidates from their local daily newspapers . In 2008 , 31 % said they got campaign news from their daily newspaper and 40 % did so in the 2000 election cycle . There are comparable declines in the share regularly getting campaign information from network evening news programs and local TV news . For all three of these sources , the rate of decline slowed during the dramatic 2008 election cycle , but has again continued on a downward track .
By about two-to-one , voters say that their recent conversations about the election have been more about the candidates ' personalities and comments ( 59 % ) than about specific issues or policy positions ( 32 % ) . Though both Trump and Clinton supporters are more likely to say their conversations have been focused on personalities and comments rather than issues and policies , Clinton supporters are particularly likely to say this ( 66 % vs. 53 % of Trump supporters ) .
Half say the level of casualties is more than they expected , up from 42 % in September . And while more Americans have a positive view of the situation in Iraq , just 28 % think things there are going very well . Two-thirds of Americans believe the United States made the right decision in going to war in Iraq , up from 60 % in October . In addition , more now say the president has a clear plan to bring the situation in Iraq to a successful conclusion , though the public is split on this issue ( 44 % say he has a clear plan , 45 % believe he does not ) .
Although economic concerns about China have become less prevalent in recent years , many Americans are still worried about China 's economic strength . The amount of American debt held by China , for instance , is the top concern among the eight sources of tension between the two countries included in the survey . Large majorities of Americans consider all eight of these issues at least a somewhat serious problem for the U.S. , and more than half say the amount of U.S. debt held by China , cyberattacks , China 's environmental impact and job losses are very serious problems .
When it comes to who will be targeted by made-up news in 2020 , 51 % of Democrats say this kind of misinformation will mostly be intended to hurt the Democratic Party , while just 4 % say it will be intended to hurt the Republican Party . Another 36 % of Democrats say such news will be intended to hurt both parties about equally .
The estimated total U.S. daily newspaper circulation ( print and digital combined ) in 2018 was 28.6 million for weekday and 30.8 million for Sunday , down 8 % and 9 % , respectively , from the previous year . The addition of these figures would also change the overall picture for combined print and digital circulation . The digital boost driven by these two large , national brands would still result in an overall drop in circulation year over year , but a smaller one : Overall weekday circulation would have fallen by 1 % in 2018 rather than 8 % .
Majorities of adults in each of the 11 emerging and developing countries surveyed report owning their own mobile phone . Ownership levels are highest in Vietnam , where nearly all adults ( 97 % ) own a mobile device , although about nine-in-ten or more also own one in Jordan , Tunisia , Colombia , Kenya , Lebanon and South Africa . Ownership is lowest in Venezuela , India and the Philippines , but even in these countries about seven-in-ten adults own a mobile device . Meanwhile , an 11-country median of 11 % say they do not own a mobile phone , which includes a median of 7 % who say they regularly use someone else 's phone .7 But overall , phone sharing is relatively rare in most countries – ranging from just 1 % in Vietnam to a high of 17 % in Venezuela . ( Throughout this report , phone owners and phone sharers will be grouped together and referred to as `` mobile phone users . '' )
About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the economy more closely than any other story . Last week , news about the economy accounted for 8 % of coverage , according to PEJ .
Despite historically low levels of public trust in the federal government , Americans across the political spectrum continue to overwhelmingly express favorable opinions of a number of individual federal agencies , including the Postal Service , the National Park Service , NASA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) . And majorities of both Republicans and Democrats now express favorable views of the FBI , reflecting a rebound in GOP perceptions after a decline in recent years . Of the 16 agencies asked about in a national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 5 - 16 among 2,004 U.S. adults , 14 are viewed more favorably than unfavorably by the public . Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) is the sole agency asked about in the survey viewed more negatively ( 54 % unfavorable ) than positively ( 42 % favorable ) , while the public is divided in its view of the Department of Education ( 48 % favorable , 48 % unfavorable ) . Wide majorities of Democrats and Republicans report having a favorable opinion of the Postal Service , the National Park Service , NASA , the CDC and the Census Bureau .
Fewer than one-in-ten ( 6 % ) say their top story was the Obama administration 's decision to reject current plans for the Keystone XL oil pipeline that was to run from Canada to Texas ; 22 % say they followed this news very closely . News about the administration 's decision made up 2 % of coverage . Just 1 % say their top story was the bankruptcy filing last week by Kodak , the once-dominant photo film maker ; 7 % say they followed this news very closely . About a third of those 65 and older ( 32 % ) say they followed this news at least fairly closely , compared with 13 % of those under 30 . News about the bankruptcy filing accounted for 1 % of coverage .
Fully 92 % of internet users agreed that the online environment allows people to be more critical of one another , compared with their offline experiences . But a substantial majority , 68 % , also agreed that online environments allow them to be more supportive of one another . Some 63 % thought online environments allow for more anonymity than in their offline lives .
The U.S. public generally anticipates more negative than positive effects from widespread job automation . Around three-quarters of Americans ( 76 % ) say inequality between the rich and the poor would increase if robots and computers perform most of the jobs currently being done by humans by 2050 . Only a third ( 33 % ) believe it 's likely that this kind of widespread automation would create many new , better-paying jobs for humans .
Consider the findings of the Facebook study in which they varied how many positive and negative posts from friends test subjects were allowed to see . Posts were determined to be positive or negative if they contained a single positive or negative word . Then , the test subject 's own use of positive and negative words in their status updates was monitored for a week . In all , test subjects posted a total 122 million words , four million of which were positive and 1.8 million negative .
When Obama takes the rostrum Tuesday night for his fifth State of the Union , he will be speaking at a time when his current approval rating stands at 43 % . Last year was the only time just before a State of the Union that more than half the public gave Obama positive marks for the job he was doing , when 52 % approved . Obama was riding the wave of his successful re-election campaign , which put him in a stronger position with the public than he was during much of his first term . He was also helped by the relative poor standing of the Republicans , whose favorable ratings had dropped significantly over the previous months .
About 2.5 million Latinos are registered to vote in Florida for the 2020 presidential election , making up a record 17 % of the state 's total . This is up from 2016 , when about 2 million Latinos were registered to vote , accounting for 16 % of Florida 's registered voters , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Florida state government data .
More voters say they know a lot about where Clinton stands on important issues than say the same about Trump . About half ( 53 % ) say they know a lot about Clinton 's positions ; by comparison , fewer ( 43 % ) are confident they know where Trump stands . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are just as likely to say they know a lot about where Clinton stands ( 50 % ) as they are about Trump ( 53 % ) . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents , on the other hand , say they know much more about Clinton 's positions ( 57 % say a lot ) than Trump 's ( 36 % ) .
When it comes to the current rivalry between the U.S. and China , Germans and Americans are in slight disagreement on whether a conflict akin to the Cold War will occur . A majority of Americans ( 59 % ) think the U.S.-China rivalry will escalate into something like the Cold War between the U.S. and the Soviet Union that dominated geopolitics from the end of World War II until the collapse of the USSR in the early 1990s . Around four-in-ten Americans say this is unlikely . Germans are almost equally divided on this hypothetical scenario . About half ( 49 % ) say a Cold War-like confrontation is likely , while 47 % say it is unlikely .
In recent years , Mexico has deported more Northern Triangle nationals than the U.S . In fiscal 2017 , the most recent year with data for both countries , Mexico deported 95,000 people from El Salvador , Guatemala and Honduras , while the U.S. deported 74,000 . Between fiscal 2002 and 2017 , Mexico deported nearly 1.9 million people from these three nations , while the U.S. deported 1.1 million . The largest difference during that period occurred in fiscal 2005 , when Mexico deported around 176,000 more immigrants from the Northern Triangle than the U.S. did .
In a survey conducted in fall 2016 , about half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) said the bigger concern about the government 's anti-terrorism policies is that they have not gone far enough to adequately protect the country , while a third said the bigger concern is that they have gone too far in restricting the average person 's civil liberties . Since 2004 , Americans have generally expressed more concern about the government 's policies not going far enough than about civil liberties . Yet the reverse was true in 2013 , shortly after leaks of classified information about government surveillance by former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden . In two surveys that year , Americans were more likely to say the government was going too far in restricting civil liberties than not going far enough to protect the nation . Republicans have generally been more likely than Democrats to say the bigger concern about the government 's anti-terrorism policies is that they do n't go far enough to protect the country . This has been especially true in recent years : In the fall 2016 survey , around two-thirds of Republicans ( 68 % ) said the government 's policies do n't go far enough – tied for the highest share holding that view since 2004 . Fewer Democrats said the same ( 46 % ) .
Hungarians give Orbán , with his anti-refugee stance , high marks for his handling of the refugee issue ( 71 % approve ) . By contrast , only about a quarter say the same about the EU .
But now , as the White House and Congress find themselves in yet another showdown over the budget and debt ceiling , Gallup reports that 33 % of Americans now cite dissatisfaction with government and lawmakers as the nation 's top issue . That figure not only surpasses the economy ( 19 % ) and unemployment ( 12 % ) , but is the highest such percentage dating back to 1939 for what Gallup describes as `` dysfunctional government . '' Gallup said that the economy and jobs as the nation 's top problem had already been declining this year . But , in its survey conducted Oct. 3 - 6 , Americans who mentioned some dissatisfaction with government leadership as the top problem doubled to the 33 % mark , compared to 16 % last month .
Critiques of Trump 's response run in the opposite direction . About half ( 52 % ) say either that Trump has not taken the risks seriously enough ( 23 % ) or that he has n't taken them seriously at all ( 29 % ) ; 37 % say he 's gotten the risks about right . Views of how Trump , Democratic leaders and the news media have responded to the risks of the coronavirus are highly partisan . However , there is bipartisan agreement that officials at the CDC have responded appropriately : 64 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners and 63 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say CDC officials have gotten the risks of the coronavirus about right . Roughly three-quarters of Republicans ( 76 % ) say the news media have exaggerated the risks of the coronavirus , including 53 % who say they have greatly exaggerated them . While Democrats are less likely than Republicans to say this , many do criticize the news media in this regard : 49 % of Democrats believe the media have exaggerated the coronavirus risks , compared with 41 % who think they 've gotten them about right .
A new Pew Research Center survey conducted in early April finds that roughly half of U.S. adults ( 53 % ) say the internet has been essential for them personally during the pandemic and another 34 % describe it as `` important , but not essential . '' The new national survey of 4,917 U.S. adults conducted April 7 to 12 using the Center 's American Trends Panel explores public attitudes about the role of government in addressing these issues and finds that a majority of Americans ( 62 % ) do not think it is the federal government 's responsibility to ensure that all Americans have a high-speed internet connection at home during the COVID-19 outbreak . And a similar share ( 65 % ) do not think the federal government should be responsible for ensuring cellphone services to all .
One million immigrants receive lawful permanent resident status each year – also known as a green card – that puts them on a path to citizenship , and most are sponsored by family members . Among the 1,051,031 people granted green cards in fiscal 2015 , 65 % were relatives of a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident . Most of these relatives are spouses ( 25 % of new lawful permanent residents ) , parents ( 13 % ) and minor children ( 6.3 % ) of U.S. citizens ages 21 and older ; they are admitted without quotas . Other family admission visas – for adult children and siblings of U.S. citizens , and spouses and children of lawful permanent residents – are subject to category and country limits . About 144,000 green cards in fiscal 2015 went to people on employment visas and their family members . About 152,000 went to refugees and people granted asylum . Nearly 48,000 went to immigrants admitted under a `` diversity '' program to provide additional visas to nations with low U.S. immigration . From fiscal 2004 to 2015 , 57 % of people who got green cards already lived in the U.S. on temporary visas : There were a total of 5.5 million new arrivals , compared with a total of 7.4 million already living in the U.S. who adjusted their immigration status .
About half ( 49 % ) of all Latinos say that the Democratic Party has more concern for Hispanics , while just 7 % say the Republican Party has more concern . Since 2004 , the share of Hispanics who say that the Democratic Party has more concern for Hispanics has increased by 14 percentage points . Most of this gain for the Democrats comes from a reduction in the share of Latinos who say there is no difference between the parties . Among Hispanics who are registered voters , a majority say that Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama is the better candidate for Hispanics ( 55 % ) and for immigrants ( 50 % ) . Just 11 % of Hispanic registered voters say that Republican presidential nominee John McCain is better for Hispanics , and just 12 % say he is better for immigrants . The remainder see no difference between the two candidates on this front . Overall , Hispanic registered voters support Obama over McCain by 66 % to 23 % ( Lopez and Minushkin 2008 ) .
Most legislators across these five countries maintain Twitter accounts : A majority of members ( ranging from 61 % to 100 % , depending on the country ) have an account on Twitter , and 73 % tweeted at least once in the first six months of 2019 .
The 2008 campaign was viewed more positively in several respects . In surveys conducted between February and October of that election year , majorities consistently said it was informative , compared with just 40 % who say that about the 2012 campaign today . The share who described the 2012 campaign as interesting stood at 59 % in June 2008 and rose to 71 % by mid-October of that year . Just 34 % see this year 's campaign as interesting . But 2008 was the exception on many of these measures . Opinions about the 2012 presidential campaign today are fairly similar to the public 's views in June 2004 . At that time , 79 % said the campaign was important ( the same percentage as today ) , 52 % said it was too long ( 59 % today ) and just 33 % said it was interesting ( 34 % today ) .
The nation 's total immigrant population reached a record 40.4 million in 2011 , according to an analysis of Census Bureau data by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center . Over the last decade , the number of immigrants in the U.S. has steadily grown . Since 2007 alone , the number of immigrants living in the U.S. increased by 2.4 million . The number of unauthorized immigrants living in the U.S. also grew during the last decade , rising from 8.4 million in 2000 to 11.1 million in 2011 . However , this population peaked at 12 million in 2007 , then fell to 11.1 million in 2009 . It has remained at that level through 2011 , the last year for which an estimate is available ( Passel and Cohn , 2012 ) .
Mexico is the top origin country of the U.S. immigrant population . In 2018 , roughly 11.2 million immigrants living in the U.S. were from there , accounting for 25 % of all U.S. immigrants . The next largest origin groups were those from China ( 6 % ) , India ( 6 % ) , the Philippines ( 4 % ) and El Salvador ( 3 % ) .
In absolute terms , the pay of Latino workers increased over the 1990s , but not as rapidly as for non-Hispanic whites . In 2000 the average full-time , year-round Hispanic worker earned about $ 31,000 , or about 60 percent of what non-Hispanic whites earned . The pay of whites was up so sharply that the overall pay gap between white and Hispanic workers increased by $ 7,000 for men and $ 5,000 for women .
However much the Snowden revelations may have contributed to the debate over privacy versus anti-terrorism efforts , Americans today – after a series of terrorist events at home and abroad – are more concerned that anti-terrorist programs do n't go far enough than they are about restrictions on civil liberties . An August-September survey found that Americans held that view by a 49 % to 33 % margin .
The public overall is almost evenly divided : 51 % say this responsibility rests mostly with states , while 48 % say the federal government should be primarily responsible . Partisans express contrasting views : While 68 % of Republicans say state and local governments should be primarily responsible for developing and implementing policies to limit the spread of the coronavirus , 64 % of Democrats say the federal government bears most of the responsibility .
When it comes to where Americans place their trust as they gather information before making an important decision , a big majority ( 81 % ) say they rely a lot on their own research – many more than say they rely a lot on friends and family ( 43 % ) or professional experts ( 31 % ) , according to a 2018 Pew Research Center survey . Some 15 % also say they rely on their own research `` a little '' as they make major decisions .
About 550,000 men were stay-at-home dads in the past decade . Together they comprised about 3.5 % of all married couples with children where at least one spouse had a paid full-time job . That 's about double the number in the 1970s when roughly 280,000 men—about 2 % of the total—stayed home with the kids , and the number of full-time caregiving dads is expected to continue to increase , according to an analysis of government data by a research team headed by University of Illinois sociologist Karen Z. Kramer .
The United States is home to more college-educated immigrants than any other country . As of 2015 , there were 14.7 million immigrants ages 25 and older with a postsecondary diploma or college degree living in the U.S. – more than triple the number in Canada ( 4.4 million ) and more than four times as many as in the United Kingdom ( 3.4 million ) , according to a recent Pew Research Center report .
Women may never make up half of the U.S. labor force . Women accounted for 46.8 % of the U.S. labor force in 2015 , similar to the share in the European Union . Although women comprised a much larger share of the labor force in 2015 than in 1950 ( 29.6 % ) , the Bureau of Labor Statistics projected the share of women in the workforce will peak at 47.1 % in 2025 before tapering off .
The COVID-19 outbreak has been a major national news story , dominating news consumption and prompting frequent presidential press conferences . But it is also an important local news story , with many Americans depending on their local media outlets for information about the outbreak . In the same survey , nearly half of U.S. adults ( 46 % ) named local news outlets as a major source for COVID-19 news – more than the share who named several other groups , including President Donald Trump and the coronavirus task force ( 31 % ) . Other local information sources were seen as important as well : For example , 36 % of adults said state and local elected officials were a major source of news about the outbreak , while 16 % said the same about friends , family and neighbors , and 8 % named community newsletters or Listservs . In all , 64 % of U.S. adults named at least one of these local information sources as a major source for coronavirus news .
In other countries with large numbers of displaced persons , many are refugees from elsewhere . For example , Turkey has more than 2.5 million Syrian refugees as of the end of 2015 , accounting for most of Turkey 's nearly 2.8 million displaced people . And Pakistan has more than 1.5 million refugees from Afghanistan , making up more than half of the 2.7 million displaced people living within Pakistan 's borders .
At a global scale , China 's economic trajectory over the course of the century 's first decade looms large . Home to more than 1.3 billion people , or nearly 20 % of the world 's population , China alone accounted for more than one-in-two additions to the global middle-income population from 2001 to 2011 . The result was a pivot to the east , with the share of the world 's middle-income population residing in Asia & South Pacific increasing from 31 % in 2001 to 51 % in 2011 .
A one-party surge in the Democratic vote in 2006 or a one-party collapse in the Republican vote is unlikely , given the GOP 's recent success at voter mobilization . More likely is an increased vote for both parties , with the Republicans hoping to keep the nationwide House tally as close to 50 - 50 as possible . That is what happened from 1996 through 2000 , as the nationwide congressional vote between the two parties was virtually even each time and the GOP retained control of the House . The GOP 's ultimate ace in the hole is that they approach Nov. 7 as the reigning champions of voter turnout . In 2002 , the Republican House vote increased by more than 5 million from 1998 , compared with a Democratic gain of barely 2 million . In 2004 , President Bush gained more than 11 million votes from 2000 , compared with an increase for Democrat John Kerry of barely 8 million over Al Gore 's tally four years earlier .
Latinos have a bleaker view than the U.S. overall about the coronavirus , according to a June survey of U.S. adults . Among Latinos , 70 % say the worst of the problems due to the coronavirus outbreak are still to come , and a similar share said so in an April survey . By comparison , 40 % of U.S. adults say the worst of the coronavirus is behind us , up from 26 % in April .
Newsroom employees are far more likely than college-educated workers overall to have a degree in the arts and humanities . About three-quarters ( 77 % ) of college-educated newsroom employees have undergraduate degrees in the arts and humanities , more than three times the share among all college-educated workers in the U.S. ( 23 % ) . College-educated workers overall , by comparison , are much more likely than those working in newsrooms to have bachelor 's degrees in science , engineering and related fields ( 45 % vs. 16 % ) and business ( 22 % vs. 5 % ) , as well as education ( 10 % vs. 3 % ) .
Americans have complicated views about the role social media companies should play in removing offensive content from their platforms . A sizable majority of U.S. adults ( 66 % ) say social media companies have a responsibility to remove offensive content from their platforms , but just 31 % have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in these companies to determine what offensive content should be removed . Overall , about half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 52 % ) say social media companies have a responsibility to remove offensive content from their platforms . A much larger share of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 77 % ) say social media companies have this responsibility .
When asked about the amount of news coverage of specific events in Baltimore , 44 % say news organizations devoted too much coverage to unrest and acts of violence after Gray 's death ; just 12 % say they gave too little coverage to the unrest , while 38 % say news organizations gave the right amount of coverage .
Around the world , publics are divided about the direction of American power : Across the 25 nations surveyed , a median of 31 % say the U.S. plays a more important role in the world today than it did ten years ago ; 25 % say it plays a less important role ; and 35 % believe the U.S. is as important as it was a decade ago . In contrast , views about Chinese power are clear : A median of 70 % say China 's role on the world stage has grown over the past 10 years . Still , by a slim margin , more people name the U.S. as the world 's leading economic power ( a median of 39 % say the U.S. , 34 % say China ) . And despite the unease many feel about the U.S. at the moment , the idea of a U.S.-led world order is still attractive to most . When asked which would be better for the world , having China or the U.S. as the top global power , people in nearly every country tend to select the U.S. , and this is particularly common among some of China 's Asia-Pacific neighbors , such as Japan , the Philippines , South Korea and Australia .
In India , a majority of the public ( 55 % ) has a favorable view of the U. S. , including 30 % with a very positive outlook , according to a Pew Research survey conducted last spring . Only 16 % see the U.S. unfavorably , while 29 % offer no opinion . These high ratings are essentially unchanged from late last year , when 56 % of the Indian public gave the U.S. positive marks . This positive view is not shared equally among all groups in India . Younger Indians , age 18 - 29 , are more likely than those age 50 and older to see the U.S. in a favorable light ( 59 % v. 47 % ) . Higher educated people ( 65 % ) also view the U.S. more positively than those with less education ( 47 % ) . Men ( 59 % ) are more favorable to the U.S. than women ( 49 % ) , though 40 % of women express no opinion . And those with higher incomes ( 57 % ) are slightly more pro-American than lower income Indians ( 49 % ) . As with Indians ' views of the U.S. , Americans ' regard for India differs by gender , income and education . Men ( 60 % ) and those who are better educated ( 59 % ) are more likely than women ( 51 % ) and those with less education ( 50 % ) to have a favorable view of India . Higher income Americans ( 63 % ) also see India more positively , though about half with lower incomes ( 51 % ) share this sentiment .
The dramatic events in Iran last week captured the attention of both the public and the media as Americans tracked news about post-election protests in Tehran nearly as closely as they followed news about the troubled U.S. economy . Two-in-ten say they followed news about the street protests over disputed election results – and the government bid to contain them – more closely than any other major story last week . That 's about the same as the 22 % that say they most closely followed news about the economy , the week 's other top story .
The three networks ' advertiser expenditures for the morning news programs saw a slight increase in 2018 , increasing 3 % to $ 1.13 billion from $ 1.09 billion .
Despite economic reforms , the state still dominates . In a paper published last year by the Association for the Study of the Cuban Economy , former International Monetary Fund economist Ernesto Hernandez-Cata estimated that Cuba 's private and cooperative sector generated 25.3 % of GDP in 2012 , compared with just 5 % in 1989 . But the government , both directly and through state-owned enterprises , was still the source of more than three-quarters of Cuba 's economic activity . Government investment represented just 9.1 % of GDP in 2012 , versus 14.2 % in 1989 , which Hernandez-Cata said `` reveals one of the most disturbing aspects of Cuba 's recent economic history : the weakness of capital formation . '' ( Official government figures put economy-wide fixed capital investment , from all sources , at 8.3 % of GDP in 2013 , considered low by international standards . )
Three-in-ten U.S. adults say they have ever used a dating site or app , but this varies significantly by age and sexual orientation . While 48 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say have ever used a dating site or app , the share is 38 % among those ages 30 to 49 and even lower for those 50 and older ( 16 % ) . At the same time , personal experiences with online dating greatly differ by sexual orientation . Lesbian , gay or bisexual ( LGB ) adults are roughly twice as likely as those who are straight to say they ever used a dating platform ( 55 % vs. 28 % ) . A small share of Americans say they have been in a committed relationship with or married someone they met through a dating site or app . About one-in-ten U.S. adults say this ( 12 % ) , though these shares are higher among LGB adults , as well as those ages 18 to 49 .
Americans are wary about how much the U.S. should be involved globally . Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) want the U.S. `` to deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their own problems as best they can . '' Just 37 % say the U.S. should help other countries deal with their problems .
By age , the uptick in new marriages is concentrated among adults ages 35 and older . The prime age for getting hitched is 25 to 34 . In 2012 there were 75.0 newly married 25- to 34-year-olds for every thousand eligible . The new marriage rate for this prime demographic was also 75.0 in 2011 . In contrast , the new marriage rate for age groups older than 34 did increase from 2011 to 2012 . For example , among adults between the ages of 35 to 44 , 51.8 were newly married per thousand eligible in 2012 , an increase from 51.2 per thousand eligible in 2011 .
There is a general lack of confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping . A median of 34 % across the countries surveyed voice confidence in Xi , while 56 % lack confidence in him . This puts him slightly ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin ( 30 % ) and U.S. President Donald Trump ( 27 % ) in international confidence ratings , but behind German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron . Xi 's strongest backers are in the Philippines ( 58 % ) , Kenya , Nigeria and Tunisia ( all 53 % ) , and Russia ( 50 % ) . Confidence in Xi is particularly low in Europe . Just 9 % of Poles and 11 % of Greeks trust him . Confidence in Xi in the three sub-Saharan African nations surveyed is higher than in any European country polled . Half of Americans lack confidence in the Chinese leader .
Among all registered voters , 85 % say they have not argued about the election with their spouse or partner , while just 15 % have . But arguments are more common among the 11 % of voters who say their spouse or partner will vote for a different candidate . About four-in-ten of these voters ( 41 % ) say they 've had an argument about the election , compared with 13 % of those whose partner plans to support the same candidate and 10 % of those who do not know their partner 's plan .
Deadly encounters between police and black citizens in recent years have led to a vigorous debate across the U.S. over police conduct and methods . A new Pew Research Center nationwide survey of 7,917 police officers in departments with at least 100 officers , conducted by the National Police Research Platform , focuses on a wide range of topics about policing , including how police view their jobs , officers ' experiences in the field and how these fatal encounters have impacted the way they do their jobs . Most officers – 86 % – say high-profile incidents between blacks and police have made their jobs harder . Roughly nine-in-ten ( 93 % ) say officers in their department have become more concerned about their safety , while about three-quarters say that their colleagues are more reluctant to use force when appropriate or to stop and question people who seem suspicious . Three-quarters also say that interactions between police and blacks have become more tense .
With near unanimity , the Japanese public takes a dim view of North Korea – 97 % have a negative opinion of their communist neighbor across the Sea of Japan . In China , however , about half of the public ( 51 % ) has a positive view of North Korea and just 31 % have an unfavorable view . The Japanese also feel much more threatened by Kim Jong Il 's regime than do the Chinese – 46 % of Japanese consider the North Korean government a great danger to stability in Asia and world peace , compared with only 11 % in China .5South Korea also receives more favorable marks in China than in Japan . Fully 64 % of Chinese have a favorable view of South Korea , while only 18 % have a negative view . Meanwhile , most ( 56 % ) Japanese also have a positive view of South Korea , but a significant minority ( 43 % ) sees the country negatively .
Most Americans favor expanding solar power ( 92 % ) or wind power ( 85 % ) , including strong majorities of both Republicans and Democrats . The public , however , is evenly divided over whether to expand nuclear power ( 49 % on each side ) . Fewer than half of Americans support more offshore oil and gas drilling ( 42 % ) , hydraulic fracturing for oil and natural gas , known as `` fracking '' ( 38 % ) or coal mining ( 35 % ) .
The Great Recession played an important role in reversing a rise in the number of U.S. births , which peaked at 4.3 million in 2007 . Both total births and the birth rate declined each year from 2008 to 2013 , but rose in 2014 , according to preliminary data . Historically , births have declined during economically hard times and risen again when the economy recovers . The birth rate — that is , number of births per 1,000 women in the traditional childbearing ages of 15 to 44 — grew to 62.9 , from 62.5 in 2013 . The rate generally rose for older women , and declined or held steady for women younger than age 30 . The teen birth rate , generally declining since the 1990s , fell to a historic low .
Americans broadly support the disaster relief effort , but there is no evidence that basic attitudes on poverty ­ and the government 's role in addressing the issue ­ have been altered by Katrina . Currently , a narrow 51 % majority expresses the view that poor people have hard lives because government benefits do n't go far enough to help them live decently ; 38 % think poor people have it easy because they can get government benefits without doing anything in return .
About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) black men say religion is very important to them , compared with 80 % of black women . But black men place more importance on religion than white women ( 55 % ) and Hispanic women ( 65 % ) , according to the 2014 Religious Landscape Study . The same dynamic holds true when it comes to belief in God . Roughly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) black men say they believe in God with `` absolute certainty , '' a higher level of belief than is found among white women ( 67 % ) and Hispanic women ( 65 % ) , though , again , lower than the level of belief seen among black women ( 86 % ) .
Despite the long-term optimism that exists in many countries , there are widespread concerns about inequality . Majorities in all of the 44 nations polled say the gap between rich and poor is a big problem facing their countries , and majorities in 28 nations identify this as a very big problem . More than seven-in-ten hold this view in Greece , Spain and Italy – countries that faced significant economic challenges during the last several years . But even in the emerging and developing nations that have enjoyed tremendous growth over the last couple of decades , there is a consensus that those at the top are reaping the gains while others are being left behind .
It used to be more common for a husband to have more education than his wife in America . But now , for the first time since Pew Research has tracked this trend over the past 50 years , the share of couples in which the wife is the one `` marrying down '' educationally is higher than those in which the husband has more education . Among married women in 2012 , 21 % had spouses who were less educated than they were—a threefold increase from 1960 , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of Census data . The share of couples where the husband 's education exceeds his wife 's increased steadily from 1960 to 1990 , but has fallen since then to 20 % in 2012 .
Peña Nieto gets poor marks for the way he has handled specific issues , including some major planks of his reform agenda . A majority ( 63 % ) also disapproves of Peña Nieto 's handling of police reform . Still , in a separate question , over half ( 54 % ) support his plan to put all local police units under federal control . A 63 % majority disapproves of the way Peña Nieto has pursued the fight against organized crime and drug trafficking in Mexico , while over half disapprove of his handling of relations with the U.S. and the issue of education .
Americans are far more likely than Germans to say it is sometimes necessary to use military force to maintain order in the world . Around eight-in-ten Americans ( 78 % ) agreed with this notion in 2019 , while around two-in-ten ( 21 % ) disagreed with it . Germans were far more divided : 47 % agreed that it is sometimes necessary to use military force to maintain order in the world , while 52 % disagreed .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 69 % ) say there 's solid evidence that the average temperature on earth has been getting warmer over the past few decades , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March . That 's about as many as said so in 2008 , although acceptance of the reality of global warming has risen and fallen considerably over that time span : from a high of 79 % in July 2006 to a low of 57 % in October 2009 . But opinions vary on what 's causing the planet 's mean temperature to rise . Four in ten ( 42 % ) said it was primarily due to human activity , such as burning fossil fuels , while 23 % attributed the warming to natural variations in climate patterns . Another 27 % said there was no solid evidence of any warming .
Opinion is evenly divided over the effect of banks and financial institutions on the way things are going in the country ( 39 % say they have a positive effect , while the same share views their effect negatively ) . On balance , more Americans say large corporations and the news media have a negative effect on the way things are going than say these institutions have a positive impact .
In April 2016 , the average thermometer ratings for Trump among both Converts and Skeptics were very low ( 27 among Converts , 24 among Skeptics ) . By contrast , the average rating among Enthusiasts was 85 .
While most Americans support legalizing marijuana , there are concerns about public use of the drug , if it were to become legal . Overall , 62 % say that if marijuana were legal it would bother them if people used it in public ; just 33 % say this would not bother them . Like overall views of legalizing marijuana , these views have changed little in recent years .
Fewer ( a median of 22 % ) think India 's global role has diminished in the past decade . In particular , South Africans ( 37 % ) and Brazilians ( 32 % ) see India as a less important global power . The most common view across the nations surveyed ( a median of 34 % ) is that India 's role is about the same as it was 10 years ago .
Nationally , Democrats won majorities of the Hispanic vote across many demographic subgroups in congressional races . For example , Hispanic women favored Democrats over Republicans by a margin of 66 % to 32 % , compared with 57 % to 41 % among Hispanic men . There were also differences by age . Democrats beat Republicans 68 % to 28 % among the youngest Latino voters ( ages 18 - 29 ) . The margin was smaller among those ages 30 - 44 , with Democrats winning 56 % of the vote . Democrats won 62 % of the Latino vote among those ages 45 - 64 and 65 % of those 65 or older .
By contrast , more black Democratic voters continue to characterize their views as moderate rather than liberal . In 2019 , 43 % of black Democrats called themselves moderate , 29 % called themselves liberal and 25 % called themselves conservative .
According to a Pew Research Center survey in 2012 , a majority ( 77 % ) of all registered voters support photo ID laws , including 71 % of Latino registered voters . The survey also found an overwhelming majority ( 97 % ) of Latinos said they were confident that they had the identification necessary to vote . That compares with 98 % of all registered voters who said the same ahead of the 2012 presidential elections .
Our analysis looks at the number of calendar days spent in session for each two-year Congress using the Brookings Institution 's Vital Statistics on Congress database for the Senate and archival records for the House . We began our analysis with the 92nd Congress because it was the first to convene following the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970 , which mandates that both chambers recess in August . ( The act grants each chamber 's leadership discretion to shorten its recess at any time . ) The average length for both chambers ' election year summer recess has roughly doubled since the 1970s and early ' 80s . During election years between 1972 and 1982 , the Senate spent an average of 16 days in August recess , and the House an average of 17 days . More recently , the Senate was in August recess for an average of 38 days in even years from 2006 to 2016 , compared with an average of 36 days for the House .
When asked about the health care law 's future , 49 % of Americans say they think the law 's major provisions are probably `` here to stay '' while 43 % say they probably will be eliminated . As expected , opinions about the law 's fate are linked to underlying views of the ACA . Still , about a quarter of the law 's supporters ( 27 % ) say its major provisions may be eliminated , while 67 % say they are probably `` here to stay . '' Conversely , a third of ACA opponents ( 36 % ) say key aspects of the law will likely remain in place ; 55 % expect them to be eliminated .
About eight-in-ten in Lebanon say that Iran is more influential in the Middle East today than it was 10 years ago . Large majorities across all religious groups hold this view : 89 % of Shia Muslims , 77 % of Sunni Muslims and 71 % of Christians . The view that Iran now plays a less important role in the region is held by roughly a quarter in both Israel ( 24 % ) and Turkey ( 26 % ) . Across the region , fewer say Saudi Arabia 's role in the region has grown . Jordan is the only country where more than half hold this view , though a majority ( 61 % ) of Sunni Muslims in Lebanon say this . Only a quarter or fewer in Israel and Turkey agree . Few say that Egypt plays a more important role in the Middle East now compared with 10 years ago . Instead , at least four-in-ten in Turkey , Lebanon , Tunisia and Israel say that Egypt 's prominence in the region has waned .
Among those expressing optimism , a 55 % majority in Pakistan gives at least partial credit to U.S. policies for its more hopeful view , as do nearly half of Jordanian and Lebanese optimists . But in both Morocco and Turkey , 51 % of optimists give no credit to the U.S . Among pessimists , large majorities ( ranging as high as 75 % in Lebanon , 83 % in Turkey to an astounding 98 % in Jordan ) lay the blame for their lack of optimism at least partly on U.S. policies . Despite widespread distrust of America among Arabs and Muslims , many do believe the U.S. wants to see countries in the region move toward democracy . Clear majorities in Morocco and Lebanon believe the U.S. is backing democracy in their countries . But Jordanians and Pakistanis are nearly evenly split over whether America favors democracy in their nations ( the question was not asked in Turkey ) . Across all four countries , those who believe the U.S. backs democracy are considerably more likely to have a favorable view of America .
With Brexit looming , Germany 's influence in the EU is likely to grow . While Europeans have an overwhelmingly favorable view of Germany , a plurality ( a median of 48 % ) believes Berlin has too much influence when it comes to decision-making in the EU .
Nonetheless , most Americans continue to support the so-called `` watchdog role '' for the press . In fact , the percentage of Americans saying that press criticism of political leaders keeps them `` from doing things that should not be done '' is nearly as high now — at 62 % — as it was in Pew Research 's first poll in 1985 ( 67 % ) when views of the news media were far less negative than they are today . In 15 surveys since that initial poll , majorities have said that press criticism of political leaders keeps them from doing things that should not be done . Support for the press 's watchdog role has continued even as positive views of press performance have plummeted . In Pew Research 's most recent survey of press attitudes , released Sept. 13 , just 29 % said that news organizations get the facts straight ; in 1985 , nearly double that percentage ( 55 % ) said news stories were accurate .
There currently are 5.30 million registered Democrats and 5.17 million registered Republicans in the state – an edge of about 134,000 voters in favor of the Democrats . But the size of that margin has fallen from 327,000 in 2016 and 658,000 in 2008 .
When asked whether it is acceptable in Islam to visit shrines of Muslim saints , Iraqi Muslims are split along sectarian lines , with Shias nearly unanimous in their approval ( 98 % ) , compared with roughly two-thirds of Sunnis ( 65 % ) who say it is acceptable . Likewise , in neighboring Iran , the vast majority of Iranian Shias ( 89 % ) say it is acceptable to visit shrines of saints , but only 28 % of Sunnis agree . In some countries with very few Shias , Sunni Muslims are even less accepting of such practices : as few as 4 % of Egyptian Sunnis and 3 % of Jordanian Sunnis say visiting shrines is permissible .
Remittances to Spanish-speaking Latin American countries overall have recovered from a decline during the recent recession , with the notable exception of Mexico , according to World Bank data analyzed by the Pew Research Center .
Asian workers in the U.S. are the most likely to have completed at least a bachelor 's degree . In 2016 , about two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Asian workers ages 25 to 29 had at least a bachelor 's degree , compared with 47 % of white workers in this age group . And although the share of young black and Hispanic workers who are college educated has grown , just 27 % of black Millennial workers and 21 % of Hispanic Millennial workers held a bachelor 's degree in 2016 .
As news of large-scale data breaches and vulnerabilities grows , new findings from the Pew Research Center suggest that growing numbers of online Americans have had important personal information stolen and many have had an account compromised .
Overall , a median of 64 % across 32 emerging and developing nations say the internet is a good influence on education , with at least half also seeing it as a good influence on personal relationships ( 53 % ) and the economy ( 52 % ) . People are more mixed on the internet 's effect on politics , with similar proportions saying that the influence is good ( 36 % ) as say it is bad ( 30 % ) .
Hispanics in the U.S. are divided on how to deal with the thousands of Central American children illegally arriving in the country , according to a Pew Research survey conducted earlier this month . About as many Hispanics support the current system for deciding immigration cases as do those expediting the process ( 49 % – 47 % ) , which would have the effect of speeding up deportations . The split among Hispanics is in contrast to views of the overall public , which backs a faster process over the current policy by 53 % to 39 % . Like the general public , Hispanics — a diverse group that includes people with roots in more than 20 countries — give the president low marks on his handling of the surge of children . Some 46 % of Hispanics disapprove and 34 % approve of the president 's handling of the issue , while Americans overall disapprove of the president 's performance by a 56 % to 28 % margin . ( A Washington Post/ABC poll had similar results . )
In general , people who see the recent Secret Service problems as signs of broader issues are less likely to express confidence in the agency to reform itself : Still , 57 % of those who say the incidents are signs of broader problems have at least some confidence in the agency to improve its job , while 42 % have little or no confidence . Among those who view recent reports of security problems as mainly isolated incidents , 84 % have at least some confidence that the Secret Service will improve and just 15 % lack confidence . The current outbreak of the Ebola virus , including the first reported diagnosis in the U.S. , garnered the most news interest last week . Fully 36 % of the public closely followed the story , up 9 points from the prior week . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) closely followed news about U.S. airstrikes against ISIS in Iraq and Syria . In the week before , 37 % followed news about the airstrikes . Roughly two-in-ten ( 21 % ) tracked news about problems with White House security and the resignation of the Secret Service director . In addition , 15 % were closely following news about next month 's congressional elections and 7 % paid close attention to political protests in Hong Kong .
There also is broad public agreement that the president-elect will need to be more cautious in expressing his views once he takes office . About eight-in-ten Americans ( 82 % ) – including large majorities of Republicans and ( 76 % ) and Democrats ( 90 % ) – say that once he takes office , Trump `` will need to be more cautious about the kinds of things he says and tweets . '' Just 15 % of the public says there is no need for Trump to change the kinds of things he says and tweets .
Supporters of some , but not all , populist parties are less favorable toward the UN . Supporters of six populist parties in Europe are less likely than those with an unfavorable opinion of these parties to express a positive opinion of the UN . For example , 48 % of those who favor the Czech ANO 2011 party have a positive view of the UN , compared with 69 % of those who do not favor this party . Supporters of five other populist parties are more likely than those with the opposite opinion to see the UN favorably . For example , 78 % of those who support Slovakia 's Ordinary People and Independent Personalities ( OLaNO ) party have a favorable view of the UN , compared with 61 % of those who do not support this party .
When Americans are asked what has brought the biggest improvement to their lives in the past five decades , they name technology more than any other advancement . And as Americans think about the next 50 years , they expect that technology , along with medical advances , will continue to have a major impact , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted May to June of this year .
Today , a 58 % majority of Americans say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 37 % think abortion should be illegal in all or most cases . These views are relatively unchanged in the past few years . The latest Pew Research Center political survey finds deep disagreement between – and within – the parties over abortion . In fact , the partisan divide on abortion is far wider than it was two decades ago .
Americans broadly found it acceptable for the government to monitor certain people , but not U.S. citizens , according to the 2014 - 15 survey . About eight-in-ten adults ( 82 % ) said it was acceptable for the government to monitor communications of suspected terrorists , and equal majorities said it was acceptable to monitor communications of American leaders and foreign leaders ( 60 % each ) . Yet 57 % of Americans said it was unacceptable for the government to monitor the communications of U.S. citizens .
As Barack Obama begins his final year in office , the goal of reducing the budget deficit , which the public once ranked among the most pressing objectives for his administration , has continued its recent decline in perceived importance . Overall , 56 % say that reducing the budget deficit should be a top priority for the president and Congress in 2016 , down from 64 % who said this last year . The emphasis given to the budget deficit peaked in 2013 , the first year of Obama 's second term , when 72 % called it a top priority . At that time , the deficit ranked behind only improving the job situation and the economy on the public 's to-do list . Today , reducing the budget deficit ranks ninth in priority out of 18 policy areas tested in the survey . The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 7 - 14 among 2,009 adults , finds that strengthening the nation 's economy and defending the country from future terrorist attacks rank atop the public 's priority list : 75 % each say these should be top priorities for the country . These also were the public 's two most important policy goals in 2015 .
Most unauthorized immigrant adults reside with immediate family members—spouses or children . About half of undocumented adults live with their own children under 18 . Nearly half of unauthorized immigrant households ( 47 % ) consist of a couple with children . That is a greater share than for households of U.S.-born residents ( 21 % ) or legal immigrants ( 35 % ) . This difference stems in large part from the relatively youthful composition of the unauthorized immigrant population . Most children of unauthorized immigrants—73 % in 2008—are U.S. citizens by birth . The number of U.S.-born children in mixed-status families ( unauthorized immigrant parents and citizen children ) has expanded rapidly in recent years , to 4 million in 2008 from 2.7 million in 2003 . By contrast , the number of children who are unauthorized immigrants themselves ( 1.5 million in 2008 ) hardly changed in the five-year period and may have declined slightly since 2005 .
A majority of Americans disapprove of the Supreme Court 's stance on prayer in public schools , according to 2012 data from the General Social Survey , conducted by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago . Asked whether they approve or disapprove of the court 's ruling that no state or local government may require the reading of the Lord 's Prayer or Bible verses in public schools , roughly 39 % say they approve and about 57 % say they disapprove . Those percentages have stayed relatively steady since the early 1980s .
The survey asked respondents how important following the news was for being a good citizen , and those who say following the news is `` very important '' are more likely to correctly answer whether three or more of the six sources conduct their own news reporting . Over half of those who say following the news is very important ( 55 % ) correctly answered three or more of the original reporting questions , compared with 44 % of those who say following news is somewhat important and 32 % of those who say it is not too or not at all important .
Teens use a number of platforms and devices to keep in touch with friends , but text messaging is used on a daily basis much more than others . Roughly nine-in-ten teens ( 88 % ) spend time with their friends via text messaging at least occasionally , and 55 % do so every day . Phone calling , instant messaging and social media are also popular ways for teens to spend time with friends , but in comparison with texting , they are used far less for daily interactions . Few teens keep in touch with friends on a daily basis by email or video chatting .
Against this backdrop , a new Pew Research Center analysis finds that people in EU nations with higher unemployment rates tend to voice more pessimism about future job prospects in their country . The analysis also finds that youth unemployment rates , as well as changes in a country 's gross domestic product , are linked to economic attitudes in EU member states . Across 14 EU nations surveyed by the Center this year , a median of 54 % of adults say they are pessimistic about the future availability of well-paying jobs in their country , ranging from just 28 % who say this in Sweden to 76 % in Spain and 80 % in Greece . These attitudes are connected with current economic conditions . The unemployment rate in Greece sat at 19.3 % in 2018 – the highest in the EU , though down from its peak of 27.5 % in 2013 – while Spain had a rate of 15.3 % in 2018 . By comparison , the unemployment rate was much lower in Sweden ( 6.3 % ) than in Greece and Spain , perhaps explaining why Swedes are less pessimistic about the future availability of well-paying jobs in their country . This pattern is not uniformly the case , however . People in France and the UK stand out for being much less optimistic than their counterparts in nations with similar youth unemployment rates . French and British adults , in fact , are about as pessimistic about the financial future of the next generation as people in Italy , Spain and Greece – even though France and the UK have youth unemployment rates that are roughly 10 to 20 percentage points lower .
The U.S. unauthorized immigrant population – 11.1 million in 2014 – has stabilized since the end of the Great Recession , as the number from Mexico declined but the total from other regions of the world increased , according to new Pew Research Center estimates based on government data . The recent relative stability in the estimated size of the U.S. unauthorized immigrant population is a contrast to previous periods . The number of unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. rose through the 1990s and early 2000s , peaking at 12.2 million in 2007 . The number of unauthorized immigrants declined in 2008 and 2009 .
The expectation that the election will be exhausting is in line with perceptions of the campaign so far . Most Americans say the campaign has been too long and dull ( 56 % each ) , while 53 % say it has been too negative . At the same time , an overwhelming majority ( 79 % ) views the presidential campaign as important .
The average U.S. adult is able to answer slightly fewer than half of the religious knowledge questions correctly ( 14.2 of the 32 ) . But the survey finds that Americans ' level of knowledge varies based on who is answering the questions . Educational attainment is strongly associated with religious knowledge . College graduates get an average of 18.2 out of 32 religious knowledge questions right , including 18 % who answer 25 or more correctly . Within this group , people who have a postgraduate degree do especially well , averaging 19.3 out of 32 questions correct , including one-quarter who answer at least 25 questions right ( 24 % ) . By comparison , those who have a high school diploma or less education get 11.0 questions right , on average .
For the past two weeks , Obama and McCain have been about equally visible from the public 's perspective . In the current survey , 42 % say they have heard the most about Obama in the news in the last week or so , while 37 % say McCain . This balance stands in stark contrast to the week of the GOP convention , when McCain was far more visible ( 54 % vs. 28 % ) . It is also quite different from the pre-convention period , when Obama was routinely the more visible of the candidates .
Newt Gingrich holds a substantial 35 % to 21 % lead over Mitt Romney among Republican and Republican-leaning independent voters who say they are very likely to vote in the GOP primaries or caucuses . But clear majorities say there is at least a chance they would vote for either Gingrich or Romney in Republican primaries in their state . None of the other Republican candidates draws nearly as much potential support . Just 18 % of likely Republican primary voters say there is no chance they could support Gingrich and only somewhat more ( 26 % ) say there is no chance they could vote for Romney . More than four-in-ten likely Republican primary voters have effectively ruled out voting for the other GOP candidates .
A majority ( 55 % ) of U.S. mothers with children younger than 18 at home are employed full time , up from 34 % a half-century ago , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau Current Population Survey data . The rise in full-time employment has fueled the overall rise in employment among moms : Now , 72 % of moms are employed , either full time or part time , compared with about half in 1968 . Among fathers with kids in the home , the vast majority ( 89 % ) are employed full time .
Adoption : 87 % of American adults now use the internet , with near-saturation usage among those living in households earning $ 75,000 or more ( 99 % ) , young adults ages 18 - 29 ( 97 % ) , and those with college degrees ( 97 % ) . Fully 68 % of adults connect to the internet with mobile devices like smartphones or tablet computers .
Among Republicans , trust in the federal government has increased since the end of Barack Obama 's presidency . A within-administration moving average places the average share of Republicans who trusted the federal government just about always or most of the time at 11 % shortly before the 2016 presidential election . The average share of Republicans expressing trust in the federal government increased to 25 % in April 2017 and currently stands at 28 % . Today , just 12 % of Democrats trust the federal government to do what is right – an historic low . Prior to Trump 's inauguration , the lowest average share of Democrats saying they trusted the government always or most of the time over the more than 60 years since the question was first asked , was 17 % , towards the end of George W. Bush 's administration ( and prior to the 2008 election ) in 2008 . More Democrats now say they never trust the federal government to do what is right ( 17 % ) than say they can trust it always or most of the time .
Nonwhite teachers not only were sharply outnumbered by white teachers in America 's classrooms , they also tended to work in different school environments , the NCES data show . For example , 31 % of teachers in city schools were nonwhite , versus just 11 % of teachers in rural schools – a reflection of the broader racial and ethnic makeup of America 's communities . And while nonwhite teachers accounted for 29 % of the total in public charter schools , their share was considerably lower in traditional public schools ( 19 % ) .
The more serious forms of harassment are less frequent : 10 % of men and 6 % of women said they had been physically threatened on online platforms and similar shares said they had been harassed for a sustained period of time , stalked or sexually harassed .
By roughly the same margin ( 37 % to 30 % ) , more say that , looking ahead , the health care law will have a mostly negative than a mostly positive personal impact , while 30 % say it will not have much of an effect . This is little changed over the last few years .
Large majorities say the tone and nature of political debate in the United States has become more negative in recent years – as well as less respectful , less fact-based and less substantive . Donald Trump is a major factor in people 's views about the state of the nation 's political discourse . A 55 % majority says Trump has changed the tone and nature of political debate in this country for the worse ; fewer than half as many ( 24 % ) say he has changed it for the better , while 20 % say he has had little impact .
To the extent that people see one gender having more influence when it comes to making important decisions about household finances , men are generally seen as having more influence than women . In 16 of the 34 countries surveyed , more say men have more influence than say women do by a margin of at least 10 percentage points . The gap is particularly wide in Nigeria , where 61 % say men generally have more influence in this area ( compared with 10 % who say women do ) , Turkey ( 54 % vs. 11 % ) , Israel ( 44 % vs. 11 % ) , Lebanon ( 40 % vs. 10 % ) and Sweden ( 37 % vs. 9 % ) . In each of these countries , people are at least four times as likely to say men have more influence as they are to say women do . Among European publics , majorities or pluralities in 12 of 14 countries surveyed say men and women generally have about the same influence in making important decisions about household finances . The only two European countries surveyed where this is not the case are Lithuania and Slovakia , where similar or equal shares say both genders have about the same influence as say men have more influence in this area .
Among all households headed by those ages 25 and older , median household income ( in 2018 dollars ) increased 13 % from 2012 ( $ 57,100 ) to 2018 ( $ 64,800 ) . The incomes of households headed by adults with a ninth to 12th grade education – but short of a high school diploma – increased 14 % during this span , likely the most of any education group . In contrast , the median income of households headed by adults with at least a bachelor 's degree rose by 8 % .
But among liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans there have been sizable changes in opinions of the court ; more liberals now view the Supreme Court as conservative – and fewer conservatives view it as liberal – than did so just a few months ago . The national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted July 8 - 14 among 1,805 adults , finds that as many Americans call the court liberal ( 26 % ) as say it is conservative ( 27 % ) . More ( 38 % ) say the current Supreme Court is `` middle of the road . ''
Whites are divided in their views of the level of attention paid to race and racial issues : While 36 % think there is too much , about as many ( 38 % ) say there is too little . By contrast , fully 68 % of blacks say there is too little attention paid to race today ; just 15 % say there is too much . A 55 % majority of Hispanics also say there is too little attention on race .
Majorities of those of all races and ethnicities see the new coronavirus as at least a minor threat to their health . However , 46 % of black people and 39 % of Hispanics view the coronavirus as a major threat to their own health , compared with 21 % of white adults .
Looking only at women nearing the end of their childbearing years , 9 % report that they have ever personally undergone a fertility treatment or had a spouse or partner do so , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of National Center for Health Statistics data . ( An additional 5 % of these women report that they or their partner sought medical advice or testing regarding fertility , but did not undergo any additional treatments . ) Among women ages 35 to 44 , those with at least a bachelor 's degree , those with incomes of $ 75,000 or more and those who are white are particularly likely to say they have personally undergone fertility treatments or to have had a spouse or partner do so . For example , among white women in this age group , 12 % say they 've undergone this type of treatment , compared with 3 % of black and 5 % of Hispanic women .
Americans ' comfort with sharing information with public health officials about whom they have been with and where they have been varies . Roughly three-in-ten U.S. adults ( 27 % ) say they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing the names of people with whom they might have been in physical contact . A similar share ( 22 % ) say the same about their lack of comfort sharing information on places they have recently visited . Half of U.S. adults say they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing location data from their cellphone . Republicans are about twice as likely as Democrats to say that they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing the names of people with whom they might have been in physical contact ( 37 % vs. 18 % ) and places they 've recently visited ( 30 % vs. 14 % ) . They are also more likely to express discomfort about sharing location data from their cellphone ( 60 % vs. 42 % ) . Younger adults express less comfort sharing information than older adults . For instance , 32 % of those ages 18 to 29 say they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing the names of people they might have been in physical contact with , compared with 21 % of those ages 65 and older who say this . And those with lower incomes and less formal education tend to be less comfortable sharing information . About three-in-ten of those from households with lower ( 28 % ) or middle incomes ( 29 % ) say they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing names of contacts , compared with 19 % of those with higher incomes who say so .
Throughout the 20th century , college-educated adults in the United States had been less likely than their less-educated counterparts to be married by age 30 . In 1990 , for example , 75 % of all 30-year-olds who did not have a college degree were married or had been married , compared with just 69 % of those with a college degree .
About seven-in-ten mothers ( 71 % ) with children younger than 18 were in the labor force in 2012 , compared with less than half ( 47 % ) in 1975 . Meanwhile , after decades of decline , the share of stay-at-home moms has ticked up since 1999 .
Americans also distinguish themselves from Western Europeans on views about the importance of religion . Half of Americans deem religion very important in their lives ; fewer than a quarter in Spain ( 22 % ) , Germany ( 21 % ) , Britain ( 17 % ) and France ( 13 % ) share this view .
There are various reasons why nonvoters decide not to vote . Nearly half ( 49 % ) say not liking politics was either a major reason ( 26 % ) or minor reason ( 23 % ) they did not vote . A similar share ( 44 % ) said believing that their vote would not make a difference was at least a minor reason why they did not vote . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) cite inconvenience as a reason , while 30 % say not being registered or eligible to vote was a reason for not voting .
When it comes to why a person is rich , the public overall is divided : 43 % of U.S. adults say it is more because they worked harder than most other people , while 42 % say it is more because they had greater advantages in life than most other people . Again , the two partisan coalitions have strikingly different views on this question . About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 71 % ) say a person is generally more likely to be rich because they worked harder than others , and just 18 % say a person 's wealth is more likely to be the result of having more advantages in life . By contrast , just 22 % of Democrats say wealth is generally more likely to be the result of working harder , while 62 % say it generally has more to do with advantages others did not have .
While STEM workers tend to be highly educated , roughly a third have not completed a bachelor 's or higher-level degree . A substantial share ( 35 % ) of the STEM workforce does not have a bachelor 's degree . Overall , about three-in-ten STEM workers report having completed an associate degree ( 15 % ) or have some college education but no degree ( 14 % ) . These workers are more prevalent among health care practitioners and technicians , computer workers and engineers . Some 36 % of STEM workers have a bachelor 's degree but no graduate degree . Roughly three-in-ten STEM workers ( 29 % ) have earned a master 's , doctorate or professional degree . Life scientists are the most highly educated among STEM workers , with 54 % , on average , having an advanced degree .
Amid accelerating economic growth and falling unemployment , 27 % of Americans rated the economy as excellent or good earlier this month , while 48 % said it was only fair and 24 % called it poor . The percent rating economic conditions as poor has declined nine points since October ( from 33 % ) . This marks the first time in Obama 's presidency that about as many have described the economy as excellent or good ( 27 % ) as poor ( 24 % ) . Democrats are almost three times as likely to rate the economy as excellent or good than Republicans . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Americans say the economy is recovering , but not strongly , compared with just 16 % who regard the recovery as strong . Expectations for the economy have improved somewhat with 31 % saying it will be better a year from now compared with 27 % last October . Nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say Obama 's economic policies since taking office have made economic conditions better , while 28 % say they have made the economy worse , according to our Jan. 7 - 11 survey . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) think they have not had much of an effect . On balance , this is the most positive rating of Obama 's economic impact since December 2009 . The survey also found that more Americans have more confidence in Obama than Republican leaders to do the right thing on the economy : 49 % have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in Obama compared with 37 % who say they have more confidence in GOP leaders .
In addition , 14 % said that Spitzer was the story they followed most closely last week . The overwhelming majority of this group ( 80 % ) says they talked about the Spitzer scandal with the people they know . Overall , 25 % of Americans paid very close attention to recent ups and down in the stock market and 11 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . The media devoted 6 % of its overall coverage to the stock market and other economic issues . Interest in the market is comparable to the level registered in late January when 29 % followed the market very closely . Stories about the murder of a female student at the University of North Carolina attracted the very close attention of one-in-six Americans ( 17 % ) ; 7 % said this was the story they followed most closely . Southerners followed this story more closely than people from other regions of the country . Public interest in the Iraq war is virtually unchanged from earlier in the year . Last week , 29 % of Americans followed news about Iraq very closely and 8 % said it was the story they followed most closely .
Overall , 10 % of Americans are what we call Bystanders , or the politically disengaged , according to Pew Research Center 's Political Typology report . None of this cohort say they 're registered to vote , and none say they follow government and public affairs most of the time ( this compares with 48 % of Americans overall ) . Virtually all of this group ( 96 % ) say they 've never contributed money to a candidate running for public office . Bystanders are young ( 38 % are under 30 ) , and nearly a third ( 32 % ) are Hispanic . A third of Bystanders are foreign born , a higher share than any of the other typology groups , including 29 % total who are not citizens .
Large majorities of adults in all age groups say tech companies have a responsibility to prevent misuse of their platforms , but older Americans are somewhat more likely to say this . Around eight-in-ten of those ages 65 and older ( 79 % ) say this , compared with seven-in-ten among those ages 18 to 29 . Younger adults , in turn , are more likely than their older counterparts to have confidence in tech companies to prevent misuse of their platforms . Nearly a third ( 32 % ) of adults under 30 say they are at least somewhat confident in tech companies to prevent misuse , compared with 22 % of adults 65 and up .
Currently , just 38 % of Americans have a favorable view of the Republican Party while 58 % have an unfavorable opinion . The percentage rating the GOP unfavorably is unchanged from July ( 58 % ) and remains among the highest on record . Favorable ratings of the GOP are up slightly from a low of 33 % in July , and are roughly on par with previous surveys back to 2011 . The Democratic Party continues to receive better ratings than the GOP , with about as many offering a favorable ( 47 % ) as an unfavorable ( 48 % ) opinion . Democratic Party favorability had also fallen to a low of 41 % in July , and has returned to a roughly even divide that is consistent with polling over the past few years .
Similarly , assessments of Trump ' s personal traits and characteristics , including his trustworthiness , leadership and ability to get things done , have not changed much over the course of his presidency . Trump continues to get low ratings for his temperament : Just 28 % of Americans say he is even-tempered , while 69 % say that description does not apply . A somewhat larger share ( 36 % ) says Trump is trustworthy ; a majority ( 61 % ) says Trump is not trustworthy .
All age cohorts of internet users ( ages 12 and older ) are equally likely to use email ; about 90 % of all internet users send or receive email . Given the many other variations in internet use among different age groups , it is notable that this basic communications tool is almost universally used . Even teens , many of whom disparage email as something for `` old people , '' and tend to prefer instant messaging , have not completely abandoned it . Email is the most popular online activity , especially for internet users age 65 or older . However , the best place to reach someone age 70 and older is still offline . Only 26 % of Americans age 70 - 75 and 17 % of Americans age 76 or older go online .
Three-in-ten of those who say they met their partner online report that their partner is a different race or ethnicity , compared with 19 % of those who met their partner offline . People who met their partner online are also somewhat more likely to say that they and their partner do not identify with the same political party ( 46 % vs. 40 % ) . Of those who say their partner has a different political affiliation , many are in a couple where one person leans to or is affiliated with one party and the other is a political independent or undecided . Meanwhile , there are no significant differences in educational attainment or income between couples who met online and offline . But after controlling for age , these differences disappear . Looking only at Americans younger than 40 , similar shares of those who met their partner online ( 49 % ) and offline ( 48 % ) say their partner identifies with a different political party . Similar shares ( 31 % and 27 % , respectively ) say their partner is of a different race or ethnicity . The shares saying they have a different income or education level from their partner are also not significantly different between those who met online and offline .
With just over two months before the midterm elections , Republican voters are widening the `` expectations gap '' with the Democrats . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) Republican and GOP-leaning registered voters think their party will do better than in recent elections — roughly double the share of Democrats ( 32 % ) who feel similarly about their party 's chances . This gap has not reached the same levels of the GOP 's margin before their large 2010 gains or the Democrats ' expectations in their 2006 sweep of both houses of Congress . Last December , the expectations gap was narrower ; 55 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning registered voters said the party would do better than recent elections , compared with 43 % of Democrats .
Most expect the European Union 's influence in world affairs to be unchanged by the pandemic . A majority of Americans say the EU will emerge from the pandemic with roughly the same amount of influence in world affairs as it had beforehand , while about a fifth think its position will improve and a similar share expect its power to decline .
Today , 86 % of Hispanic parents and 79 % of black parents with children under 18 say it is either extremely or very important that their children earn a college degree . By comparison , about two-thirds ( 67 % ) of white parents say the same .
Among social media users as a whole , the ability to read comments by public figures such as politicians , celebrities or athletes does not come into play as a major factor—fully three quarters of users say that this plays no role whatsoever in their decision to use these sites . And while connecting with public figures has a relatively modest impact on users across a range of groups , both African Americans and Latinos show more interest in this activity than white users . One in ten black social media users ( 10 % ) and 11 % of Latinos say that reading comments from public figures is a major reason for using these sites ( compared with just 3 % of white users ) . Black and Latino social media users are also more likely to say that this is a minor factor ( 31 % of blacks and 26 % of Latinos say this , compared with 16 % of whites ) .
During an emergency , Twitter became an information lifeline : 34 % of the Twitter discourse about Hurricane Sandy was news and information , including news organizations providing content , government sources offering information and people sharing their own eyewitness accounts and passing along information to others .
In addition to the gender gap in voter turnout , partisan preferences differ widely by gender . Pew Research Center survey data going back more than two decades shows a growing gender gap in partisan affiliation . In 2018 and 2019 , the Democratic Party held a wide advantage with women : 56 % of female registered voters identified as Democrats or leaned toward the Democratic Party , while 38 % identified as Republicans or leaned toward the GOP . This stands in contrast to men , among whom 50 % were Republicans or GOP leaners and 42 % identified as or leaned Democratic . This gender gap has been slowly growing wider since 2014 . Party affiliation , like voter turnout , differs significantly by race and ethnicity . Within each racial and ethnic group , however , there is a gender gap in partisan identification ; in each case , women are more likely than men to identify as Democrats .
Agreement on proposed solutions , though , did not share the ubiquity of concern about the size of the deficit . A poll in the summer of 1983 found overwhelming disapproval for raising taxes ( 78 % disapprove , 15 % approve ) and making cuts to entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare ( 82 % disapprove , 11 % approve ) in order to address the deficit . By lesser margins , Americans also rejected further cuts to social programs ( 50 % disapprove , 42 % approve ) as a solution . With the Cold War front and center during the Reagan years , the public nevertheless gave its strongest support for any deficit-cutting proposal to cuts in defense spending ( 55 % approve , 35 % disapprove ) .
Americans and Germans clearly align on NATO . Nearly identical percentages of Americans ( 64 % ) and Germans ( 63 % ) have favorable views of the organization . Moreover , German and American opinions have largely moved in tandem – and remained favorable – since this question was first asked in 2009 .
For all of the money spent on this year 's midterm elections — $ 3.67 billion , according to the Center for Responsive Politics — less than half of eligible voters will actually cast ballots in the nation 's 435 House districts , if history is any guide . Political scientists ( and practical politicians ) long have recognized that voter turnout surges in presidential election years and falls off in midterm elections . In the 2008 presidential election , for example , nearly 59 % of estimated eligible voters voted in that year 's House elections . Two years later for the midterms , only about 41 % of eligible voters went to the polls . ( We estimated eligible voters in each district from 2006 through 2012 using data from the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey , and obtained vote totals for every House race from the House Clerk 's office . Our analysis excluded a handful of races in which unopposed candidates were n't listed on the ballot . ) You might think there 'd be some relationship between how competitive a given election is and turnout . A race where victory could go either way might spur more interest and rev up get-out-the-vote efforts from both sides ; a race where one candidate is a prohibitive favorite could lead many people to conclude there 's no point in heading out to vote . But our analysis shows little , if any , correlation between a House election 's competitiveness ( measured by the winner 's victory margin ) and turnout . In the Tea Party year of 2010 , for example , overall turnout in House races was 40.7 % of estimated eligible voters . That year , the nation 's highest turnout was in Wisconsin 's 5th District , where 62.4 % of estimated eligible voters cast ballots and Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner cruised to a 42-percentage-point victory . The nation 's tightest race in 2010 was in Illinois ' 8th District , where Republican Joe Walsh edged Democrat Melissa Bean by just 290 votes ; 41.7 % of estimated eligible voters cast ballots in that contest . ( The lowest turnout rate in 2010 , 19.5 % , came in Texas ' 16th District , which Democrat Silvestre Reyes won by a comfortable 21.5 percentage points . )
About 57,800 minors in the U.S. ages 15 to 17 were married as of 2014 . That might sound like a lot of people ( and it is ) , but it 's also just five of every 1,000 in that age group , a Pew Research Center analysis of 2014 data from the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey finds . By contrast , 18 of every 1,000 of those ages 18 to 19 were married , and among those ages 20 to 24 , the number rose to 107 out of every 1,000 .
A contested convention , for those who 've never experienced one ( which is to say , everyone under the age of 35 or 40 ) , occurs when no candidate has amassed the majority of delegate votes needed to win his or her party 's nomination in advance of the convention . A candidate still might gather the delegates needed by the time balloting begins , in which case the nomination is settled on the first ballot . But should the first ballot not produce a nominee , most delegates become free to vote for whomever they wish , leading potentially to multiple ballots , horse-trading , smoke-filled rooms , favorite sons , dark horses and other colorful elements that have enlivened American political journalism , literature and
These teachers see disparities in access to digital tools having at least some impact on their students . More than half ( 54 % ) say all or almost all of their students have sufficient access to digital tools at school , but only a fifth of these teachers ( 18 % ) say all or almost all of their students have access to the digital tools they need at home .
In the June 4 - 10 survey , a majority of voters said it is very ( 28 % ) or somewhat important ( 30 % ) to them personally to get messages from the presidential campaigns about important issues . About four-in-ten said it is not too important ( 25 % ) or not at all important ( 17 % ) .
Americans overwhelmingly support limits on political campaign spending , and most think new laws could effectively reduce the role of money in politics . And there is extensive support for reining in campaign spending : 77 % of the public says `` there should be limits on the amount of money individuals and organizations '' can spend on political campaigns ; just 20 % say they should be able to spend as much as they want . A somewhat smaller majority ( 65 % ) says that new campaign finance laws could be written that would be effective in reducing the role of money in politics , while 31 % say any new laws would not be effective .
If the changed moral climate has taken a toll on how Americans view their country and government , its impact has been greatest on Americans who came of age in the 1960s and 1970s when criticism of government leaders and policies crescendoed . The long-term impact of this period in American history upon the young people of that time is clearly evident today . The nearly 40-year history of public opinion about the state of the nation and trust in government makes it possible to observe how particular generations have changed or maintained their views over this time period .
Through the first 12 primaries of 2016 , combined Republican turnout has been 17.3 % of eligible voters – the highest of any year since at least 1980 . Democratic turnout so far is 11.7 % – the highest since 1992 , with the notable exception of the extraordinarily high turnout in 2008 . ( Those figures may change , of course , depending on how the rest of the campaign plays out ; history suggests that once one party 's nomination is locked up , turnout in subsequent contests tends to fall off . )
Voters are broadly skeptical that , if elected , Clinton or Trump would achieve progress on major issues facing the country . Asked to look ahead a few years , fewer than half say things would get even a little better on six different issues – ranging from the economy to foreign policy – under either a Clinton or Trump administration . In general , higher percentages say all six issues will get at least a little better in coming years under Trump than Clinton . However , on five of the six issues , comparable percentages feel that things would get worse under Trump as under Clinton . And far more voters say foreign policy would get worse under a Trump presidency ( 49 % ) than under a Clinton administration ( 34 % ) . Across the six issues , more voters expect say things would not change much under Clinton than under Trump . Roughly a third of voters say that on issues ranging from security from terrorism ( 36 % ) to the budget deficit ( 31 % ) , things will not be much different in the years ahead than they are today . In assessing a possible Trump presidency , smaller percentages – no more than about one-in-five –expect little change on any issue .
Many Americans believe fabricated news is sowing confusion , and about a third ( 32 % ) say they often see made-up political news online . Nearly two-thirds of U.S. adults ( 64 % ) say fabricated news stories cause a great deal of confusion about the basic facts of current issues and events . About a third of U.S. adults ( 32 % ) say they often see made-up political news online , while 39 % sometimes see such stories and 26 % hardly ever or never do . About half ( 51 % ) say they often see political news online that is at least somewhat inaccurate – a higher proportion than those who say they see news that is almost completely made up ( 32 % ) . About a quarter ( 23 % ) say they have ever shared made-up news stories themselves , with roughly equal shares saying they have done so either knowingly or unknowingly . A large majority ( 84 % ) of Americans say they are at least somewhat confident in their ability to recognize fabricated news . Americans have low trust in information from social media . Just 5 % of web-using U.S. adults have a lot of trust in the information they get from social media , nearly identical to the 4 % who said so in 2016 . This level of trust is much lower than trust in national and local news organizations , and in information coming from friends and family . In fact , in a separate study focusing on science news about twice as many social media users distrust science posts on social media as trust them ( 52 % compared with 26 % , 21 % of social media users do not see any science posts ) .
The full population picture does n't tell the whole story . If you look simply at the total percentage of online adults who say they trust a news organization for news about government and politics , several mainstream television outlets rise to the top . CNN , ABC , NBC , CBS and Fox News are all trusted by more than four-in-ten web-using U.S. adults . These high numbers , though , are intertwined with the fact that more than nine-in-ten respondents have heard of these five news sources . Trust and distrust were only asked of sources respondents had heard of , thus , the better known a source is , the more Americans in total who can voice trust or distrust of that source . A source like The Economist , on the other hand , is known by just 34 % of respondents and so could never have a trust level exceeding 34 % — even if everyone who had heard of it trusted it .
There is a similar pattern in views of agreement with Trump on issues among Republican subgroups . While majorities of Republicans across demographic and educational categories agree with Trump on many or nearly all ( or all ) issues , half or more of self-described conservatives ( 50 % ) and those 65 and older ( 54 % ) say they agree with Trump on all or nearly all issues . That is higher than the shares among other groups of Republicans . For example , among Republicans under age 30 , just 21 % say they agree with Trump on all or nearly all of the important issues facing the country .
In a two-way question , 58 % of Republicans said the main purpose of college should be to teach specific skills and knowledge for the workplace ; 28 % said it should be personal growth . Democrats were divided : 43 % said the main purpose of college should be to learn specific skills while 42 % said personal growth .
Among the issues tested , rising prices , crime and the gap between rich and poor are seen as the biggest problems in Turkey . Lack of employment opportunities ( 51 % saying it is a very big problem ) is also seen as a major issue . There are lower levels of concern over corruption among political leaders , poor-quality schools , traffic and health care . But overall , most Turks still see these issues as at least moderately big problems .
A majority of the public says abortion should be legal in all or most cases ( 59 % ) , while 37 % say abortion should be illegal in at least most cases , according to a Pew Research Center survey released last week . Support for legal abortion has fluctuated in recent years , but is at its highest level since 1995 .
For Biden supporters , opposition to Trump is by far the most frequently mentioned reason why they support him . Asked an open-ended question about the main reason they support or lean toward Biden , a 56 % majority of his supporters cite their opposition to Trump ; far fewer mention Biden 's leadership or performance as a candidate ( 19 % ) or his personality ( 13 % ) .
Almost three-quarters ( 74 % ) of smartphone owners get real-time location-based information on their phones as of February 2012 , up from 55 % in May 2011 . This increase coincides with a rise in smartphone ownership overall ( from 35 % of adults in 2011 to 46 % in 2012 ) , which means that the overall proportion of U.S. adults who get location-based information has almost doubled over that time period—from 23 % in May 2011 to 41 % in February 2012 . Meanwhile , more smartphone owners are using geosocial services like Foursquare or Gowalla1 to `` check in '' to certain places and share their location with friends . Some 18 % of smartphone owners use geosocial services on their phones , up from 12 % in 2011 . This translates to 10 % of all adults as of February 2012 , up from 4 % in May 2011 .
Immigrants with past criminal convictions accounted for 74 % of all arrests made by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) agents in fiscal 2017 , according to data from the agency . The remainder were classified as `` non-criminal '' arrestees , including 16 % with pending criminal charges and 11 % with no known criminal convictions or charges . The profile of arrestees by ICE 's Enforcement and Removal Operations has changed considerably in the past eight years : In fiscal 2009 , the earliest year with comparable data , immigrants without past criminal convictions accounted for the majority ( 61 % ) of those arrested by the agency .
For the second week in a row , Americans followed news about the swine flu and its vaccine more closely than any other news story – with public interest outpacing the amount of national media coverage devoted to the story . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) name reports about the fast-spreading flu and its vaccine as the story they followed more closely than any other last week , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted October 30-November 2 among 1,001 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Somewhat fewer mention news about health care reform ( 22 % ) or the economy ( 17 % ) as their top story . A separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) finds that the national news media devoted 5 % of the newshole to swine flu , much less than the coverage given to the health care debate ( 16 % ) , Afghanistan ( 13 % ) or the economy ( 12 % ) .
Men and women have similar value priorities for children for all but a handful of qualities . To the extent that there are differences , women are more inclined to prioritize helping others and empathy as important . A clear majority of women and men say that teaching children about helping others is important ( 89 % and 80 % , respectively for women and men ) but women are relatively more inclined to say this . And 26 % of women , compared with 18 % of men , say it is one of the most important values to teach children .
Among immigrants ages 5 and older in 2018 , half ( 53 % ) are proficient English speakers – either speaking English very well ( 37 % ) or only speaking English at home ( 17 % ) .
For the first time in at least five years , as many Americans say they are hearing good news ( 26 % ) as bad news ( 25 % ) about the nation 's job situation ; a 45 % plurality reports hearing a mix of good and bad news . This is the first time that more than 20 % have expressed positive views about job news since the Pew Research Center began tracking this question in 2009 . In June of that year , just 1 % said news about the job situation was mostly good , and 71 % said it was mostly bad . In the last year alone , the share hearing mostly bad news about jobs has fallen 15 points , while the percentage hearing mostly good news has risen nine points . When it comes to news about the overall economy , most continue to say that they 're hearing a mix of good and bad news ( 63 % ) , while 21 % say they are hearing mostly bad news and 14 % are hearing mostly good news . The gap between positive and negative perceptions has narrowed considerably since a year ago , when 31 % were hearing bad news and 7 % were hearing good news .
The Pew Hispanic analysis finds that 35 % of unauthorized adult immigrants have resided in the U.S. for 15 years or more ; 28 % for 10 to 14 years ; 22 % for 5 to 9 years ; and 15 % for less than five years .
Pew Research surveys going back to 1987 show only a quarter to a third of Americans agreeing with the statement that `` We should make every possible effort to improve the position of blacks and other minorities , even if it means giving them preferential treatment . '' But support is sharply split by race : When we asked the question last year , 62 % of blacks and 59 % of Hispanics agreed with the statement but only 22 % of whites did . And while 44 % of 18- to 29-year-olds agreed , about a third of all other age groups did .
There is relatively broad consensus on the remaining elements of the scenario . Substantial shares of Americans think David experiences online harassment when he begins to receive unkind messages from strangers ( 72 % ) , when those messages become vulgar ( 82 % ) , when his personal information is posted online ( 85 % ) , and when he starts to receive threatening messages ( 85 % ) .
Overall , 39 % say it has contributed a lot to encouraging interest in science , 35 % say it has contributed some while 22 % think it has contributed not much or nothing . Nearly as many ( 38 % ) say the space program has contributed a lot to scientific advances that all Americans can use , while 34 % think it has done a lot for feelings or pride and patriotism .
While majorities of every age group now have an unfavorable view of China , Americans ages 50 and older are substantially more negative ( 81 % ) than those ages 30 to 49 ( 71 % ) or those under 30 ( 56 % ) . For those ages 50 and older , this represents an increase of 10 percentage points since March .
Ratings of how Obama is handling the nation 's immigration policy have slightly improved since late August but remain mostly negative ( 56 % disapprove vs. 38 % approve ) . Opinions about the president 's handling of immigration were more negative than positive throughout his first term , though he started his second term about even ( 44 % approve , 43 % disapprove ) before dropping to 32 % approval last November and 31 % approval this August . On balance , non-Hispanic blacks remain positive toward Obama on this issue : About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) approve of his handling of immigration and 32 % disapprove .
Some 41 % of adults say they would not be likely to speak with a public health official by phone or text message about COVID-19 . Not all Americans are equally likely to say this . For example , looking at this first step of the process only , 48 % of those with a high school diploma or less formal education say they would be not at all or not too likely to speak with a public health official in this way , compared with a smaller share ( 30 % ) of those with a bachelor 's degree or higher . There are also differences by income : 45 % of those from households with lower incomes say they would be not at all or not too likely to do so by phone or text , while a smaller share ( 31 % ) of those in higher-income households say the same . Younger Americans are also less likely to say they would speak with a public health official by phone or text during the outbreak . Roughly half ( 49 % ) of adults ages 18 to 29 say they would be not at all or not too likely to do so , compared with smaller shares of Americans 50 and older who express such reluctance .
Despite its reputation for la dolce vita , when it comes to rating their current lives and looking to the future , Italians are generally gloomier than their fellow Europeans , as well as Americans and Canadians . For example , when asked to place themselves on a `` ladder of life , '' where zero represents the worst possible life and 10 the best possible life , fewer than half of Italians ( 48 % ) rate their life at least a seven . On the other hand , in Sweden ( 72 % ) , Canada ( 71 % ) , Spain ( 66 % ) , and the United States ( 65 % ) , more than six-in-ten respondents place themselves on the top rungs of the ladder .
So why are some smartphone users forgoing broadband ? Some 65 % of the smartphone-only Americans say the smartphone lets them do all they need to online , according to our 2015 survey . But while the smartphone-only clearly see the usefulness of the device , cost plays an important role in the decision not to subscribe to high-speed service at home . The availability of other access options outside the home also comes prominently into play . Public libraries may help fill the online gap among smartphone users who do n't subscribe to home broadband services . For public library users , those with smartphones only are somewhat more likely than those with home broadband , by a 34 % to 30 % margin , to use a library 's Wi-Fi , computers or internet connections to get online . Similarly , for those who engage in personal learning activities , the smartphone-only are more likely to do this at a high school , college or community college than those with broadband at home ( by a 40 % to 24 % margin ) .
While the public expects greater discord between two parties they view as far apart , rank-and-file Republicans and Democrats see their own parties as united . Overall , 55 % of Republicans and Republican leaners describe the GOP as mostly united on issues and its vision for the future .
The Supreme Court 's health care decision is the month 's most closely followed story , surpassing the economy and the presidential election . ( Public interest in stories earlier in June can be found here and here ) . This week , there also was more interest in the court 's ruling on health care than in its decision on Arizona 's immigration law ( 29 % very closely ) and the House vote holding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt for not sharing documents related to a gun-trafficking investigation ( 22 % very closely ) . Interest in the presidential election has remained fairly stable over the past few weeks . From June 28-July 1 , 32 % tracked news about the election very closely .
For the second week in a row , the public kept its focus on the aftermath of the disaster in Japan , while the fighting in Libya received the most media coverage . Despite the violence and the U.S. role in the fighting , interest in the situation in Libya is comparable to interest in more general economic news . Fewer than four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say they followed news about the airstrikes in Libya very closely ; this was the top story for 13 % . Meanwhile , 42 % say they followed news about the economic situation very closely , while this was the top story for 14 % . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say they very closely followed the discussions in Washington about how to address the federal budget deficit ; 6 % say they followed this news more closely than any other top story . More than a third of Republicans ( 36 % ) say they are following the budget debate very closely , compared with 27 % of Democrats . News about the budget debate made up 5 % of coverage .
Suspected bots are no more likely to link to digital-native news sites than to legacy news organizations . One might expect sites that were `` born on the web '' to be more integrated with social media and online environments relative to legacy news sites , and thus more frequently trafficked by suspected bot accounts . Yet suspected automated accounts are prolific in sharing links not only to sites born on the web but also to legacy news organizations . Suspected bots shared 60 % of tweeted links to legacy sites , about on par with the 59 % of tweeted links to digital native sites .
In fact , only about a quarter ( 27 % ) of all officers say they have ever fired their service weapon while on the job , according to a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted by the National Police Research Platform . The survey was conducted May 19-Aug. 14 , 2016 , among a nationally representative sample of 7,917 sworn officers working in 54 police and sheriff 's departments with 100 or more officers . But among police officers , are some more likely than others to have fired their weapon in the line of duty ? To start , male officers , white officers , those working in larger cities and those who are military veterans are more likely than female officers , racial and ethnic minorities , those in smaller communities and non-veterans to have ever fired their service weapon while on duty . Each relationship is significant after controlling for other factors that could be associated with firing a service weapon .
Americans who are high in religious commitment – that is , those who attend religious services at least weekly , pray at least daily and say that religion is very important in their lives – are less inclined than those with either medium or low levels of religious commitment to say that gene editing is an appropriate use of medical technology .3 For example , those high in religious commitment are closely divided over whether it is appropriate to use gene editing to reduce a baby 's risk of disease later in life ; 46 % say this is appropriate , while 53 % consider it taking technology too far . In contrast , roughly three-quarters of those low in religious commitment ( 73 % ) say gene editing to reduce a baby 's risk of developing a serious disease or condition is an appropriate use of medical technology . And , while a 57 % majority of those high in religious commitment say gene editing to treat a congenital disorder in a baby is an appropriate use of medical technology , a much larger share of those with low religious commitment ( 82 % ) say this is appropriate .
During the fall campaign season , we asked panelists – voters and non-voters alike – which candidate they preferred for Congress . Support for Republican candidates was strongly associated with financial security : among the most secure group , 49 % favored or leaned to the Republican candidate , compared with just 17 % among the least secure group .
The survey found that between 2006 and 2012 , the share of congregations allowing an openly gay or lesbian couple to become full-fledged members grew from 37 % to 48 % . In addition , the number of congregations that allowed openly gay and lesbian members to assume any lay leadership position also increased – from 18 % in 2006 to 26 % in 2012 .
